(['90435', 'Public Finance', "['Robert Strauss']", 'The purpose of Public Finance (90-736/90-435) is to provide an introduction to the theory and practice of how national; regional and local governments should and actually finance their budgets for operating and capital project purposes. To accomplish this; the course reviews: i] rationales for government intervention in the market place; ii] analyzes methods of resolving conflicts over the size of the public sector budget; iii] extensively analyzes the rationales and issues of various types of tax revenue; and iv] reviews the effects of public sector spending and taxes on the aggregate economy. Throughout; Public Finance emphasizes the interplay between how current revenue policy is fashioned; and how the models and their key assumptions along with political processes interact which result in changes in current law at the federal; state; and local levels. While the examples are largely drawn from the US; examples are also drawn from around the world. Because the subject matter of public spending and revenues can easily consume an entire academic year of study; Public Finance focuses mainly on the revenue side of the public budget. Two courses typically offered by Professor Strauss in the Spring build on Public Finance. Public Expenditure Analysis (90-774/90-474) deals with techniques for evaluating private and public expenditure and capital spending decisions. Education Finance and Policy (90-817) deals in-depth with issues surrounding multi-level government finance from US and international perspectives. While Public Finance and Public Expenditure Analysis are self-contained; students who have had a semester of statistics and a semester of micro-economics at the principles or Advanced Placement levels will be more comfortable. For more information about Professor Strauss and this course; see respectively: www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f under Teaching for the current course outline.', '12'])
(['90700', 'Heinz Journal', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'Students get 3 Pass/Fail credits per term for participating in the journal activities. Students can be involved in editing; radio programs where the students discuss policy issues either among themselves or with a guest speaker; managing the website; promoting the journal activities; or by organizing and moderating Forum. Enrollment is restricted and can be done only by the instructor. Recruitment and enrollment takes place at the beginning of the Fall; and Spring semesters.', '3'])
(['90703', 'Gender; Politics and Policies in the US and Across the World', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", '1.-Women political participation in the U.S. and in selected countries across the world including the expansion of political and voting rights; the role of women as political leaders and the overall participation of women in the political and policymaking process. Within the U.S.; we will pay attention to the situation of racial and sexual minorities including African-American and Latina women; as well as issues affecting Lesbian and Transgender Women. 2.-The evolution of womens economic rights in the U.S. and selected countries. Central issues here are the wage gap; the glass ceiling; and the overall female participation in the private sector. 3.-Women in conflict and sex trafficking: Lastly; the course will examine the role of women in conflict as both participants and victims as well as the role of both men and women in preventing sex trafficking. Goals of this course: The readings and class discussions are going to focus not only what has happened; but also on the policies that are been implemented and should be implemented to reduce the negative effect of past actions. The course should be of interest to both men and women because we are all part of the same society.', '6'])
(['90704', 'Poverty; Inequality and Social Policies: An International Comparison', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'In her book Social Forces and States Judith Teichman argues that significant and long term improvement in distributional outcomes is a daunting political task [that requires] a strong societal consensus on the importance of the reduction in inequality; one that compels political leaders to make difficult policy changes. Teichmans words indicate that poverty and inequality are not just socioeconomic problems; but critical political and policy problems both in the U.S. and in the rest of the world and that; these problems do not have easy solutions. This class attempts to tackle some of those complex problems by looking at poverty; inequality and the social and economic policies designed to ameliorate these problems in the U.S. and selected African; Asian; European and Latin American countries.', '12'])
(['90705', 'Policy Analysis I', "['Emil Bolongaita']", 'This class aims to survey the broad field of public policy as both an academic discipline and as a field of practice. The curriculum covers in a systematic way the main dimensions and understandings of public policy making. Core frameworks for public policy-making and the debates about them are discussed and analyzed in particular the ideas of the policy cycle the garbage-can approach and the ongoing debates about the motivational and institutional foundations of public policy. Issues and problems at the main stages or steps in the public policy-making process are also explored - from the definition of policy problems and the setting of policy agendas to the theory and practice of policy analysis to the issues surrounding the delivery implementation and evaluation of public policies.Current issues and perspectives in public policy are used throughout to illustrate the general concepts and theories. The class draws on case study material from a variety of policy areas and is concerned with how concepts and theories shape contemporary public policy practice. ...Read More', '12'])
(['90707', 'Statistical Reasoning', "['Kathleen Smith'; 'James Gaetjens']", 'This course will provide an introduction to the principles of data collection; description and analysis. You will learn the basic tools of statistical inference and modeling; as well as how to interpret results; measure the uncertainty in result; and understand the limitations of results. You will also learn how to interpret statistical output; and how not to be fooled by statistical studies.', '12'])
(['90709', 'Intermediate Economic Analysis', "['Martin Gaynor']", 'This is a course in economics relevant to public policy and management for those who already have some familiarity and facility with basic economics. In this course we will focus on microeconomics; which is the study of individuals; firms; and markets.', '12'])
(['90710', 'Applied Economic Analysis', "['Lowell Taylor'; 'Danura Miriyagalla'; 'Paul Chapman']", 'Microeconomics is the study of how individuals and firms make choices and how these choices interact in society. Economics shares with other behavioral sciences the general goal of explaining and predicting human behavior. The distinguishing feature of the economic approach is the emphasis on rational decision making under conditions of scarcity. Because of the central role of markets and the price system in describing the outcome of individual and firm decision-making microeconomics is sometimes called price theory. This course is an introduction to the basic concepts and tools of microeconomics. We study how markets work with an emphasis on analysis of the effects of public policy on the welfare of society. The course also provides a brief introduction to macroeconomics. ...Read More', '12'])
(['90711', 'Statistical Reasoning with R', "['Amelia Haviland']", 'Statistical reasoning is essential to learning from data and understanding the strengths and limitations of data analyses. This course is grounded in questions of importance in public policy and focuses on how data and statistical reasoning can inform those questions. We will use a hands-on approach to develop skills and critical thinking in the fundamentals of causal inference; univariate and bivariate descriptive statistics; quantifying uncertainty; statistical inference; and linear regression. The hands-on approach involves learning the basics of how to use the R statistical language and weekly labs in which students will use R to carry out data analysis on real-world policy issues in a supervised setting. While useful; no R or computer programming experience is required for the course; and this course does not replace the stand-alone R course. This is a rigorous graduate school introductory statistics and data analysis course; and students who take this course will be enabled to use (and further develop) statistical reasoning and methods in your other courses; your summer internship; your Systems Synthesis Project; and in your career. In todays information world; data are available everywhere and the role of statistics is rapidly increasing in public policy; health care; the arts; the entertainment industry; business; academia and many other parts of society. We echo the message of The New York Times which published an article entitled For Todays Graduate; Just One Word: Statistics.', '12'])
(['90714', 'Policy and Politics in American Institutions', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'The purpose of this course is to study the structure of the American government; the main actors in the policy process; as well as critical policy issues. The emphasis will be on the study of the central political institutions: The Presidency and Congress; as well as critical decisions of the Supreme Court and their societal impact. The course will also emphasize the analysis of critical socio-economic policies including social and educational policies; among others. We will also analyze Supreme Court decisions regarding minorities rights; gender issues; and voting rights among others. Throughout the course students will be encouraged to analyze and discuss the evolution of key political and policy issues. We will place special emphasis on the interactions between government and society and the role of social and interest groups in the process.', '12'])
(['90717', 'Writing for Public Policy', "['Stacy Rosenberg'; 'Rebekah Fitzsimmons'; 'Haylee Massaro'; 'Penny McCann']", 'Professional writing; or writing for business-focused; industry-specific contexts; differs from academic writing in objective; audience; structure; style; and format. It focuses more on problem solving than on exposition of ideas and is generally targeted to diverse audiences with varying levels of expertise. Therefore; effective writing in the workplace often requires adapting writing skills and habits to meet readers needs. Additionally; when hiring recent graduates for a mid-level position; employers identify writing skills as one of the top five factors signaling leadership potential. Whether youre looking to maximize the impact of your communications at work; seeking project funding; or looking to increase your visibility on-line; this seven-week mini course will prepare you to assume a leadership role in your industry through effective written communication. This course will not only help you refine the essentials of workplace writing; but will also provide strategies; guidelines; and best practices for writing the kinds of industry-specific documents that policy; information security/systems; and creative industry professionals need. This course is designed for experienced writers who want to take their skills to the next level. This course assumes basic proficiency in English grammar.', '6'])
(['90718', 'Strategic Presentation Skills', "['Rebekah Fitzsimmons'; 'Stacy Rosenberg'; 'Kim Hyatt'; 'Haylee Massaro'; 'Stefan Labash']", 'Strategic Presentation Skills (SPS) provides practical instruction for preparing and delivering professional presentations. Activities and assignments include: analyzing audience members; writing outlines; creating cohesive visuals; and speaking extemporaneously. Students target and engage specific audiences using a communication style suitable for workplace environments. Overall; the course helps students develop confidence and apply effective techniques when speaking in a public setting.', '6'])
(['90719', 'Physical Technical Systems I', "['Marvin Sirbu'; 'Ed Rubin'; 'Erica Fuchs'; 'Edward Rubin']", 'Information: May be taken to fulfill Systems Synthesis requirement (second year only) Physical Technical Systems introduces students of public management to important technological issues which they will face in their professional careers. The course focuses on research and presentation of formal oral and written reports. Students learn how to identify a problem structure and analyze the problem and generate conclusions and recommendations in much the same way that they would as policy analysts or managers. Students work with a client or decision maker. In addition to building research and problem-solving skills students gain practice in working as part of a professional team operating in a research environment that addresses technical social and political issues. For this reason; Physical Technical Systems courses are undertaken jointly with the Heinz School; the Department of Engineering and Public Policy; and Department of Social and Decision Sciences. Every Physical Technical Systems course addresses a different real-world problem; often for a real client. To learn the topic(s) for next semester; as well as topics from the last few years; see http://www.cmu.edu/epp/prospective/undergraduate/epp-project-courses', '12'])
(['90720', 'Physical Technical Systems II', "['Deanna Matthews']", 'Information: May be taken to fulfill Systems Synthesis requirement (second year only) Physical Technical Systems introduces students of public management to important technological issues which they will face in their professional careers. The course focuses on research and presentation of formal oral and written reports. Students learn how to identify a problem structure and analyze the problem and generate conclusions and recommendations in much the same way that they would as policy analysts or managers. Students work with a client or decision maker. In addition to building research and problem-solving skills students gain practice in working as part of a professional team operating in a research environment that addresses technical social and political issues. For this reason most Physical Technical Systems courses are undertaken jointly with the Heinz School and the Department of Engineering and Public Policy....Read More', '12'])
(['90721', 'Healthcare Management', "['Laura Synnott']", 'This course introduces students to the knowledge and skills required to strategically manage the rapidly changing internal and external environment of health care organizations. Through readings; lectures; class discussions and case reviews; the course is designed to provide students with a foundation in contemporary health care organizational structures and management practices. Students will explore problems and decisions facing health care executives in areas such as clinical quality; organizational effectiveness; efficiency; growth; stakeholder conflicts; provider incentives; margin versus mission tradeoffs; human resources; strategic planning and the like; all in a highly complex political environment. A primary theme of this course is the application of ethical management practices as codified in the American College of Healthcare Executives Code of Ethics. By providing a general overview of the responsibilities of health care leaders and managers; students will have a contextual reference for the application of future coursework. This is a hybrid course where discussion will take place both in the classroom and online via Canvas. Several lectures have been taped and should be watched before coming to class in order to ensure preparation and participation. In lieu of assignments; students will be required to respond to prompts / exercises in class and on the Canvas discussion board and interact with their fellow students. Excellent attendance and active participation are required in order to succeed in the class.', '6'])
(['90722', 'Management Science I: Optimization & Multicriteria Methods', "['Jonathan Caulkins']", 'This course; along with its companions (90-760 Management Science II: Decision and Risk Modeling; 94-833 Decision Analysis and Multi-Criteria Decision Making; and 95-760 Decision Making Under Uncertainty) are introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey a variety of hands-on quantitative and modeling methods useful to decision makers and analysts. 90-722 focuses on optimization models and methods. Normally Heinz PPM; HCPM; MBTM; and MEIM students take 90-722 90-760; whereas MISM students take 95-760 which pulls examples from the information systems context. Both tracks feed into 94-833; although students with a strong quantitative background can take 94-833 in the first year; none of the other courses are actually a prerequisite for 94-833.', '6'])
(['90723', 'Financial Statements and Analysis of Companies', "['Kathleen Smith']", 'This course provides an overview of how managers; investors; creditors; and other parties use financial information to assess the financial and operating performance of companies. The first part of the course looks at how a companys transactions are measured; recorded and presented to stakeholders. In the second part of the course you will use the Annual Report and Form 10-K that is prepared by publicly held companies to evaluate and analyze the financial status of a company for which you have no information except the annual published financial report or financial statements.', '6'])
(['90724', 'Financial Analysis', "['Tiong Lim']", 'This course provides an overview of how managers; investors; creditors; donors; foundations; and other parties use financial information to make decisions in organizations. It includes tools of both financial and managerial accounting. Unit 1 focuses on the financial reports and analysis of the financial position and the operating results of business organizations. You will learn several techniques such as common sizing; trend analysis and ratio analysis to help you analyze an organization for which you have no information except the annual published financial report. Exam 1 will be given at the end of Unit 1. The second part of the course; Unit 2; looks at the financial reports of organizations in the private (non-government) not-for-profit sector. We will compare and contrast the reporting and analysis of these NPOs with that of businesses; and discuss the needs for different information and performance measures in the private not-for-profits. Exam 2 will be given at the end of Unit 2. In the last unit; Unit 3; we look at organizations not as an outsider (investor; donor; creditor); but instead as a manager inside the organization. You will learn how to use several financial tools available to managers such as budgets; decision making tools; and break even analysis; and how to predict or measure the financial impact of different alternatives. This is often referred to as managerial accounting. The final exam covers the material in Unit 3.', '12'])
(['90725', 'Management Accounting', "['James Jordan'; 'Lynne Pastor']", 'Information provided by external financial reporting (financial statements) is compiled too late to be actionable to change an organizations performance; it is also too aggregated for managers to use in making strategic decisions. Managers must make numerous day-to-day decisions to effectively operate their business profitably; they must also adjust to changing external and internal situations. The purpose of this class is to familiarize students with the language and techniques of managerial accounting and to develop and sharpen their analytic capabilities. Students will gain insight into cost systems and cost behavior; how to evaluate performance and compare alternatives. This course focuses as much as possible on the practical application of managerial analysis. This course relies heavily on performing calculations and interpreting the results. Material is presented in a combination of lecture and modeling exercises. It is assumed that participants have a general knowledge of accounting as well as a basic knowledge of Excel.', '6'])
(['90728', 'Introduction to Database Management', "['Karyn Moore'; 'Murlikrishna Viswanathan']", 'Databases provide a powerful tool for any policy analyst and are the information backbones of organizations of all kinds. This course introduces the relational database model; entity-relationship diagrams; data flow diagrams; structured query language by example; forms; and macros using the Microsoft Access database package. Applications include data import cleaning and aggregation for policy analysis and database systems for delivery and management of services.', '6'])
(['90730', 'Policy Analysis in Practice', "['Harold Miller']", 'The course is designed to teach principles and approaches that can help a policy analyst to: determine when a policy problem exists and what is causing it; develop creative alternatives to address the problem; analyze the impacts of alternatives; including consideration of qualitative and political considerations; develop recommendations that can be successfully adopted and implemented in a political environment; present analyses and recommendations in ways that will successfully influence decisions; and resolve ethical dilemmas in conflicting roles. The primary methods taught are strategies for thinking critically and creatively about public policy problems and solutions and for helping public and private leaders to make good decisions about public policies. The course will not teach advanced methodologies in statistics; econometrics; operations research; or financial analysis; but it will focus on ways to quickly and effectively analyze available information (both quantitative and qualitative) with limited resources and time. During the course; students will learn by doing analyses themselves and by discussing how to analyze problems in class. Students will examine several different complex policy problems in depth; and they will develop alternative approaches for addressing them; evaluate the impacts of those alternatives; and grapple with the complex and often conflicting considerations involved in making recommendations for action. The specific policy problems have been selected to expose students to a range of substantive areas (e.g.; criminal justice; economic development; education; energy; environmental protection; health; and human services) and to a range of generic types of public policies (e.g.; regulations; entitlement programs; incentives; etc.).', '12'])
(['90731', 'Public Financial Management: Government Accounting', "['Mark Romito']", 'This course is designed for students to develop an understanding of the key disciplines of financial management for state local governments. Specifically; the course will emphasize the ability to read and understand basic financial statements and the comprehensive annual financial report (CAFR); how generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) apply to state local government; fund accounting; and other financial reporting components. Students will also be introduced to the fundamental principles of state local government financial management including budget development; long-term financial planning; debt management; and retirement benefits; and will become familiar with how all of these elements can be used to help accomplish organizational goals and objectives for state local governments.', '6'])
(['90734', 'Urban Policy', "['Jane Downing']", 'This course will examine policies and forces that have shaped our modern urban form. We will set our analysis in the context of a review of the historic development of cities. After an overview of early history; we will concentrate on late 19th and 20th century city development. We will examine the series of post war government and private sector policies that supported anti urban trends that led to current urban patterns. The course will conclude with a discussion of policies and remedies that can support sustainable urban growth. The course will concentrate on the physical; geographical and built aspects of cities -- the public realm; the spaces we all share -- but it will also address the relation between the physical nature of cities and the quality of community that develops. In addition to class discussions; students will be asked to develop an independent brief research project that explores in depth one of the aspects of the course content. Student presentations of their research will be used to augment class discussions.', '6'])
(['90736', 'Public Finance', "['Robert Strauss']", 'The purpose of Public Finance (90-736/90-435) is to provide an introduction to the theory and practice of how national; regional and local governments should and actually finance their budgets for operating and capital project purposes. To accomplish this; the course reviews: i] rationales for government intervention in the market place; ii] analyzes methods of resolving conflicts over the size of the public sector budget; iii] extensively analyzes the rationales and issues of various types of tax revenue; and iv] reviews the effects of public sector spending and taxes on the aggregate economy. Throughout; Public Finance emphasizes the interplay between how current revenue policy is fashioned; and how the models and their key assumptions along with political processes interact which result in changes in current law at the federal; state; and local levels. While the examples are largely drawn from the US; examples are also drawn from around the world. Because the subject matter of public spending and revenues can easily consume an entire academic year of study; Public Finance focuses mainly on the revenue side of the public budget. Two courses typically offered by Professor Strauss in the Spring build on Public Finance. Public Expenditure Analysis (90-774/90-474) deals with techniques for evaluating private and public expenditure and capital spending decisions. Education Finance and Policy (90-817) deals in-depth with issues surrounding multi-level government finance from US and international perspectives. While Public Finance and Public Expenditure Analysis are self-contained; students who have had a semester of statistics and a semester of micro-economics at the principles or Advanced Placement levels will be more comfortable. For more information about Professor Strauss and this course; see respectively: www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f under Teaching for the current course outline.', '12'])
(['90739', 'Systems Synthesis I', "['Brett Crawford'; 'Leslie Donaldson'; 'Laura Synnott'; 'Christopher Goranson'; 'Anna Siefken'; 'Felix Koenig'; 'Gerald Hunter'; 'Lena Dickinson'; 'Edson Severnini'; 'Jonathan Caulkins'; 'Kristen Kurland'; 'Richard Feder'; 'Robert Gradeck'; 'David Lassman'; 'Gregory Lagana'; 'Afua Bruce']", 'The Systems Synthesis sequence of courses 90-739 and 90-740 is intended to provide an opportunity for students to work together intensively on the design of a specific functioning system. The term System refers to the fact that the particular entity studied has an identifiable objective or function and the word Synthesis refers to the fact that the desired output is an integrated design for students to gain experience and understanding in the formulation and solution of problems in the public sector. In doing this students have an opportunity to integrate the facts and techniques they have learned and put them to a practical test. The operation of the course involves the class in the definition and solution of one or more major public problems. The class examines these problems from relevant viewpoints including the definition of system objectives user requirements as well as the examination of technological and procedural alternatives in designing the systems and consideration of the political problems in implementing solutions. The class project leads ultimately to one or more project reports and formal presentations are made to advisory panels at the end of each semester....Read More', '12'])
(['90743', 'Urban and Regional Economic Development', "['Christopher Briem'; 'Jerome Paytas']", 'The course will introduce students to the theory and practice of economic development in the United States. An introduction to basic analytic techniques used by both researchers and economic development practitioners will be coupled with a broad overview of the research literature in the fields of urban and regional economics. Emphasis will be placed on the public sectors role in promoting economic development and public policy at the federal; state and local levels that are focused on improving economic conditions for people; places and regions. Optional readings will focus on Pittsburghs economic development and regional economic change since WWII.', '12'])
(['90744', 'Nonprofit Statements & Analysis', "['Kathleen Smith']", 'This course provides an introduction to the design and use of systems that assist management in ensuring that organizations achieve their goals. It emphasizes budgets as a major component of management control systems for for-profit; governmental and non-profit organizations. Key topics include: - Understanding costs and cost behavior - Product and service costing - Budgets as planning devices and performance targets - Variance analysis - Systems to provide incentives for managers to meet organizational goals', '6'])
(['90745', 'Methods of Policy Analysis: Future of Work', "['Lee Branstetter']", 'After decades of slow wage growth and rising inequality; many American workers now fear an epidemic of joblessness as new technologies increasingly replace human labor. Is this likely to occur? How will emerging technologies reshape the U.S. labor market? How important is the gig economy; and how big might it become? What impact will the COVID crisis have on employment and income inequality in the short run and the long run? What can policy makers do to ensure that the growth of the American economy is more inclusive and equitable? The curriculum of 90-745 has been rewritten to help Heinz students (and other interested CMU students) think seriously and rigorously about the future of work in the 21st century American economy. The course will place current concerns in the broader context of the major structural shifts in the U.S. labor market over the past several decades. Drawing upon the most recent quantitative analyses; the course will show that technological change has contributed to increasingly unequal outcomes in the U.S. labor market for decades; and that this trend is likely to continue as a new wave of technological change unfolds. The course will also consider the degree to which globalization; immigration; rising monopoly power; declining union strength; minimum wage laws; and discrimination based on race and gender have contributed to rising inequality in U.S. incomes. The course will draw upon frontier research to identify old and new policy ideas that could help make economic growth more inclusive; and it will bring into the classroom policy entrepreneurs who are making a real difference. The course instructor; Professor Branstetter; is a globally recognized expert on the economics of innovation and technological change. He leads the Future of Work research initiative within CMUs Block Center for Technology and Society. He served on the staff of President Barack Obamas Council of Economic Advisers.', '12'])
(['90747', 'Cost Benefit Analysis', "['Mary Benedict'; 'Maryellen Benedict']", 'As public policy analysts; we are often presented with making decisions that are economically efficient - that is; how does one gain the most benefit for society; given limited resources? Economics provides the theoretical foundation of decision-making; but putting theory into practice is not always easy. Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is an analytical tool used to determine the worth of a project; program; or policy. It identifies and attempts to quantify the costs and benefits of the project or program and provides decision-makers with manageable information to find the best outcome. CBA helps managers to answer questions such as: - Does the proposal provide a net benefit to the community as a whole? - Should the project/program/policy be undertaken? - Should the project/program be continued? - Which of the alternative projects should be undertaken? The course employs various economic and statistical techniques to answer these questions; condensed into a 6-week course.', '6'])
(['90748', 'Real Estate Development', "['Thomas Link']", 'Critical to the economic development professionals toolkit is understanding how and why real estate is developed: what motivates private real estate development; how real estate development is financed; market drivers and the context by which private real estate developers and financiers operate; and the role of public policy and public financing in achieving desired public outcomes. In this class; you will explore the real estate development process; the context by which real estate is developed; valuation and financing methodologies; and the role of the public in supporting private real estate development through a combination of lecture; discussion; and guest speakers. You will have fun building your real estate toolkit. You will meet and learn from practicing real estate development professionals (including me) and explore real world real estate developments. From main streets to downtown office towers; you will gain a new appreciation and insight into how the places you live; work; and play came to be. Your learning will be assessed through individual take-home assignments; a group case study; class participation; and an in-class presentation. While there are no specific prerequisites for this course; you should have basic Excel modeling skills and basic understanding of finance.', '6'])
(['90750', 'Civic Engagement As A Community Process', "['Stephen Quick']", 'This course will examine Civic Engagement from the perspective of community and neighborhood issues which are often unstated but form the basis for community tension and lack of trust in the participatory process. Students will learn why the engagement process is valued in a democratic society; practiced locally; and how it is currently transforming to be more effective. While there are no right answers to effective civic engagement; the content and participatory role-playing will introduce students to the complexity of engagement issues; responsibilities; and hands-on facilitation experience to achieve better outcomes for citizens; communities; and practices for community decision and policymaking. New topics will be introduced on a weekly basis through student-led presentations and facilitated discussions. All students will be responsible for weekly reading and annotation assignments; selecting and leading at least one topic presentation and discussion; and submitting in-depth research and analysis based on their presentation topic as an end-of-term final paper. Assessment of individual performance will be based on weekly reading and annotation assignments; class participation; topic presentation and discussion facilitation; and the final paper. There will be no final exam.', '6'])
(['90752', 'Rise of the Asian Economies', "['Lee Branstetter']", 'For most of the past 40 years; no region of the world has been more economically dynamic than Asia. This economic growth transformed the patterns of world trade; lifted millions out of absolute poverty; and so captivated the attention of Western economists and business leaders that it was commonplace by the early 1990s to refer to the economic achievements of these countries as the East Asian miracle. The nature of this apparent miracle changed dramatically over the course of the 1990s as the most advanced economy in the region; Japan; suffered a sharp growth slowdown; and a number of the other miracle economies were engulfed in a regional economic crisis in the latter half of the decade. These events highlighted weaknesses in the East Asian growth model that had been hidden during the boom years. Despite these economic problems; accelerating growth in the worlds most populous countries; China and India; helped sustain regional progress and kept global attention focused on economic growth in Asia through the 2000s and 2010s; even though the growth and the international attention were largely concentrated in a different set of countries. However; new worries about Chinese economic growth have emerged in recent years. Is Chinas growth miracle slowing down? How does the economic history of Asias more advanced economies inform our view of the future economic prospects for India and China? In what ways are China and India pursuing a different path to economic development than that taken by their predecessors? The United States has long played an important role in Asia as an investor; customer; and key ally of important nations in the region. How will the policies of the new Biden Administration shape these important relationships and the future evolution of the region? We will seek to address all of these questions.', '12'])
(['90753', 'Advanced Geographic Information Systems', "['Christopher Goranson']", 'Advanced Geographic Information Systems will explore timely and relevant topics affecting our world today and give students an opportunity to more fully develop skills learned in the first GIS course and learn new; practical approaches to real-world demands for GIS expertise. This course is intended to give students applied; practical learning experiences using GIS on projects and topics; and further develop complementary skills (GIS project management and working in teams; troubleshooting project requirements; working outside of the Esri product line; etc). Therefore; this course provides more freedom in project execution and discovery of new tools; techniques and approaches to solving challenges is an important component of the course. The structure of the course will be a mix of individual and project-based group work. Topics covered may include working with the following: - Production GIS (project management; customization; project scoping and delivery) - Web-based GIS (Google Maps; Github / ArcGIS / Mapbox integrations for web-based output) - Crowdsourced / field data collection (ArcGIS Publisher / Explorer; Survey123; and operation dashboards) A solid foundation in Geographic Information Systems in general and significant experience with ArcGIS Pro is required. Students should feel comfortable investigating and working with applications and methods unfamiliar to them; and demonstrate a willingness to learn; experiment and take initiative when working on individual and group-based project work.', '6'])
(['90754', 'Elective Politics and Policy-Making', "['Richard Stafford']", 'Significant proposals in public policy at the local; state and federal level of the U.S. require usually require legislation to become a reality. Enter politicians; politics; and political processes. Elected politicians; both representatives and executives; are the ultimate arbitrators and decision-makers in public policy change. The political process can be very messy. Nonetheless public policy change can be successfully engineered from an idea to a reality. This course will explore past cases involving elected officials from the Pittsburgh region and Pennsylvania to illustrate the people; politics and processes involved in policy change. Students will then be required to apply what they learn from these cases to a contemporary policy challenge facing the Pittsburgh region.', '6'])
(['90760', 'Management Science II', "['Jonathan Caulkins']", 'This course; along with its companions (90-722 Management Science I: Decision and Risk Modeling; 94-833 Decision Analysis and Multi-Criteria Decision Making; and 95-760 Decision Making Under Uncertainty) are introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey a variety of hands-on quantitative and modeling methods useful to decision makers and analysts. 90-760 focuses on methods for making decisions in the face of uncertainty; including forecasting; Monte Carlo simulation; and queuing theory. Normally Heinz PPM; HCPM; MBTM; and MEIM students take 90-722 90-760; whereas MISM students take 95-760 which pulls examples from the information systems context. Both tracks feed into 94-833; although students with a strong quantitative background can take 94-833 in the first year; No pre-requisite of the other courses are actually a prerequisite for 94-833. Prerequisites: Ability to work with concepts from probability is required (Binomial and Normal random variables; distributions more generally; computation of mean standard deviation; event probabilities; Bayes Rule; etc.). Some concepts in 90-760 are easier to grasp if one knows regression; but regression per se is not a prerequisite. The course uses Excel intensively. If you have not already taken 90-722 or become proficient with Excel in some other way; you should work through some Excel tutorials before the course begins.', '6'])
(['90763', 'Human Rights Conflicts & Development', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'In the words of Paul Collier; Seventy-three percent of people in the societies of the bottom billion have recently been in a civil war or are still in one Colliers words effectively summarize the purpose of this course. Thus; during the term will study why civil wars and the ensuing abuses happen largely in societies suffering from massive development problems. Conversely; we will also analyze the impact that human rights abuses and conflict have on development. We will then analyze different approaches to development and how to deal with past human rights abuses. In brief; we will study the connections between development and civil wars; the destructive societal and economic effects of conflict and human rights abuses; and the policies and actions geared to reverse those detrimental effects; including foreign intervention; foreign aid and Transitional Justice policies. At the end of the course; the students are expected to have learned about: - Civil wars: Their reasons; frequency; regional scope; cost and their negative impact on development. - The nature and impact of international intervention and role of international actors; including international organizations; development agencies; international social movements and international NGOs. - Specific development issues and approaches; including the neo-liberal; the dependency and the path followed by China; among others. - How to achieve justice in the aftermath of civil wars and dictatorships. This field of inquiry is known as Transitional Justice policies and includes the study of truth commissions; trials and reparations among others. - Application of the knowledge acquired in the class to specific conflicts.', '10.5'])
(['90765', 'Cities; Technology and the Environment', "['Joel Tarr']", 'This mini will explore the interaction of cities; technology and the natural environment over time. More specifically; it will consider several major issues confronting cities today: (1) water supply; wastewater and storm water disposal and flooding; (2) Energy and Environment; (3) Transportation; suburbanization and land use; and (4) Brownfield creation and development. In a number of instances; the Pittsburgh region will be used to provide examples of these issues. These themes will be approached through a combination of class discussions; lectures; and visiting speakers. Class participation is expected; and will comprise a portion of the grade. Students will be expected to prepare a problem-oriented paper on one of the areas focused on in the course.', '6'])
(['90769', 'Critical AI Studies for Public Policy', "['Hong Shen']", 'With the rapid development of algorithmic and computing power as well as tech industrys capacity to collect massive data; Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques have increasingly become a ubiquitous part of our everyday lives; ranging from fields such as communication; healthcare; finance; policing and workplace management. Instead of studying AI as a purely technical subject; in this course; we will critically examine the most recent developments and deployments of AI from a social; cultural and policy perspective. Drawing upon real-world cases; this course will introduce students to the basic concepts and main topics to think AI socially; help them understand the potential benefits and pitfalls of various contemporary AI applications; and think toward future AI systems that can deliver greater social good. The course will include a mix of lectures; group discussions; guest lectures and small group in-class activities. Students will be asked to come to class having carefully read the required readings; submit response and discussion questions on Canvas respond to each other. Building on concepts and cases discussed in this class; students will also be asked to write two policy memos (one mini; one final) on the topic of their choice.', '6'])
(['90774', 'Public Expenditure Analysis', "['Robert Strauss']", 'Public Expenditure Analysis is a 12 unit course designed to deal with the expenditure side of the public sector budget in a series of modules. It has been conceptualized as a blending of private finance and public expenditure principles. The former provides a systematic framework; capital budgeting; for the evaluation of private-sector capital projects; while the latter builds on the former; and introduces issues of externality; the social rate of discount; and incomplete markets through the mechanism of shadow pricing. Public Expenditure Analysis prepares those Heinz and other CMU students seeking careers in the public sector; or those parts of the private sector that routinely deal with the public sectors capital budgeting decisions. It answers the question when should a community build a bridge? Public Expenditure Analysis is divided into 4 modules. In Module 1; the course develops the essential techniques of private sector evaluation principles for short-term and long-term capital projects. In Module 2; special problems which arise in the evaluation of public sector capital projects are discussed; a variety of evaluation techniques and applications especially suited to public sector projects are then examined. In Module 3; actual cost-benefit studies in the policy areas of education; environment; health; criminal justice; transportation and recreation are examined. In Module 4; evaluation at a high level of aggregation is dealt with through the use of generational accounting models. These models are examples of aggregate long and short-term public evaluation problem areas typically dealt with by national governments. Also in Module 4 groups of students perform and report a critical review of a cost-benefit study they have chosen. Throughout the course; similarities and differences between the public sector and private sector are emphasized; and examples from the real world are discussed in class.', '12'])
(['90777', 'Intermediate Statistics', "['Daniel Nagin']", 'This introductory course in data analysis and statistical inference requires no background in statistics. Its objective is to provide individuals who aspire to enter management or policy analysis positions with the basic statistical tools for analyzing and interpreting data. The course is divided into three distinct modules: descriptive statistics; statistical inference; and regression analysis. The emphasis of the classes on descriptive statistics is the calculation and interpretation of summary statistical measures for describing raw data. The sessions on statistical inference are designed to provide you with the background for executing and interpreting hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. The final component of the course focuses on regression analysis; a widely used statistical methodology. Throughout the course you will regularly analyze data relevant to management and policy analysis using the Excel statistical software package.', '6'])
(['90780', 'Pennsylvania Data Impact Lab', "['Robert Strauss'; 'Stefan Labash']", 'The purpose of this course is to provide a clinical learning environment that involves the use of electronic; relational databases obtained largely from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the US federal government. Students are expected to readily manipulate large; administrative databases to characterize a scio-economic environment; evaluate it; and analyze the implications for changing key policy variables. Students are expected to develop an understanding of the institutional rules of current law; and predict through the manipulation of data the effects of changes in current law. Last year; the course sought to answer three Covid-19 related emerging public policy issues with respect to local governments based on the analysis of data on Pennsylvania local governments in hand in various formats (Stata; R; SAS). Question 1: What is the Impact of Covid-19 Induced Unemployment on Property Taxes Received by Local Governments? What are the direct and indirect effects on cash flows to local governments with the authority to levy real property taxes as a consequence of likely evictions of renters? What evidence from the financial crisis of 2008/9 can be accumulated? Question 2: What is the impact of Covid-19 on Ability of Local Governments to maintain their real property and to pay Debt Service; especially Public School Districts? What is the original cost and market value of Pennsylvanias school buildings and land? Question 3: What are the implications of Pennsylvanias schools going permanently to online education for 100 of students; 75 of students 50 of students in terms of building space requirements; and the indirect implications of each district selling or re-purposing the land and buildings? More information regarding the questions the course will address; and the data sets to be explored; can be found on the Heinz College website: https://api.heinz.cmu.edu/courses_api/course_detail/90-780', '10'])
(['90782', 'Multi Media', "['Gary Franko']", 'Students who have already taken 90801 90804 Media Communication Design I II should not take Multi Media; 90782. This course is about communication. Specifically; we will use various media elements (text; graphics; animation; video and sound) to form communicative units. The purpose of a multimedia piece is to communicate your message to the audience. The goal of this course is to use type; color; illustrations; images; sound; animation and video to produce professional materials. This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills. Students will also learn the terminology; procedures and production requirement to effectively communicate with ad agencies; design firms and commercial printers. Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications: - Adobe InDesign CC - Adobe Illustrator CC - Adobe Photoshop CC - Apple Garageband - Adobe After Effects CC - Apple Final Cut Pro/ Adobe Premiere Each of the above software programs will have one or two projects/assignments that will be completed by the student. These applications are available in the classroom as well as several public clusters. While the class offers a jump-start to these applications; students are expected to explore the higher level features on their own. Another resource is the Internet - which offers a wealth of tips and techniques for these applications.', '12'])
(['90783', 'Policy Innovation Lab', "['Christopher Goranson']", 'The Policy Innovation Lab is a new initiative that connects students with actual policy challenges and introduces an agile; design-driven framework to rapidly create solutions to those challenges. This course is an experiment in improving public policy through by working outside the traditional structures of government. For Fall 2019; the Policy Innovation Lab will be partnering with Metro21 to investigate smart city policy challenges across five different municipalities. Students will be investigating a number of problem spaces and building policy-driven prototypes driven by user research. Students will work to solve pressing challenges by redefining the problem in terms of understanding the affected users of systems; conducting user-centered research; designing solutions; testing those same solutions; and iteratively improving those outcomes. This course is designed to take advantage of recent lessons learned in applied innovation in government entities around the world. The actual outcomes will be heavily dependent on both the needs of the problem sets for each course as well as the skills of the students. The course will apply some methodologies commonplace in industry like agile; design-thinking; and open source to deliver products and services that have the potential to live on beyond the course. For public-facing projects; work will be done in a transparent manner where possible in order to encourage external participation. Students will be expected to embrace a culture that expects and encourages rapid iteration; express a willingness to fail early in order to discover a solution that ultimately works; and a flat structure that provides students with an opportunity to deliver for our government partners.', '6'])
(['90784', 'Affordable Housing Policy and Finance', "['Jessica Smith']", '- In this course students will be introduced to Affordable Housing Policy and Finance in the U.S. Context. Approximately half of each class session will be spent describing local; state; and federal housing policies and discussing the implications (both positive and negative) of these policies in urban settings. The students will read two books to be used as aids for class discussion. The books are The Color of Law by Richard Rothstein and Evicted by Matthew Desmond. Additionally; there may be one or two occasions where a guest speaker presents a specific policy issue. - The remaining half of each class session will be spent learning the financial computations used by practitioners of housing development. In other words; how are new affordable housing developments financed when the developer knows that the rents will be less than what he/she could receive on the private market? The course will cover the basic principles of both market-rate and affordable housing finance. The instructor will also teach the fundamentals of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit. By the end of the course; the students will be expected to know how to calculate Low-Income Housing Tax Credits and use them to generate equity in affordable housing developments. - The course is for students who may want to work for local; state; and/or the federal government directly impacting issues related to affordable housing. This course is also for students who would like to work for an affordable housing developer; a real estate practitioner; and/or is just interested in the topic of affordable housing. - There are no prerequisites for the course.', '6'])
(['90788', 'Financing the Public Good', "['George Krumbhaar']", 'From the earliest days of the republic to the present; government at all levels (federal; state and local) has invested in the physical and social infrastructure that underpins our now advanced and sophisticated economy. The resulting fiscal relationships have been controversial; with Washington spending trillions in grants and other assistance; but with conditions; or strings that state and local governments often find onerous and intrusive. Furthermore; federal budget deficits are now forcing political leaders in Washington to find ways to curtail spending; with many assistance programs potentially on the chopping block and states left to enforce federal standards with less money. This seminar examines the decisions political leaders at all levels of government must make to pay for the public good. Should highways; for example; be funded by users (through tolls); by vehicle owners (through a gasoline tax) or by all taxpayers (who benefit from highways even if they do not drive)? Should the federal government be forcing states to implement federal standards; like raising the drinking age as a condition for receiving federal highway funds? How will such developing technologies and behaviors as electric vehicles and ride sharing change the economics and politics of funding our transportation infrastructure? How can the federal government balance the budget without shortchanging vital national priorities and shortchanging state/local programs they formerly help to fund? The seminar will focus on the tough choices policymakers face over funding sources and spending at all levels of government through case studies that illustrate the issues. Students will develop case studies and briefing papers; and will lead class discussions that explore how federal; state and local interests can align or collide depending on the issue.', '6'])
(['90789', 'Resilient & Sustainable Communities', "['Matthew Mehalik']", 'This course examines past and current community development topics and trends associated with creating and/or maintaining sustainable communities. Such topics include sustainable development; creative capitalism; regional planning and visioning; governance; regional equitable development; sustainable business practices; green/clean tech; smart growth and smart transportation; carbon management; resource conservation; local living economies; energy systems and strategies; dynamics of neighborhoods; among other topics. Emphasis will fall on how these various dimensions need to strategically align to promote sustainable communities amidst their complexities. The class will also delve into a variety of green and sustainable development practices to provide frameworks for integrating traditional community development practices with sustainable development practices. The class takes lessons from the past (both what has worked and what did not work) as well as appropriate; current practices and explores how to apply them to a variety of community situations and conditions. The focus is on urban communities in the U.S and worldwide; both large and small. The course includes experiential; hands-on learning (projects; case studies; analyses; presentations; field trips; and guest lectures) as well as reflective components (readings; discussion; and papers).', '12'])
(['90798', 'Systems Analysis: Environmental Policy', "['Matthew Mehalik']", 'Systems Analysis: Environmental Policy provides an introduction to how environmental policies have been and can be designed/created implemented and evaluated amidst complex information-based social political and cultural processes. The course emphasizes a systems-based methodological approach for addressing the complexities involved in framing; analyzing; and designing an implementation plan for policy construction. The course also explores through landmark and contemporary case studies several dimensions of environmental policymaking: * Contextual historical and structural aspects of environmental policymaking at the local state federal and international levels * Use of quantitative and qualitative analytical tools (from the core program as well as new tools) * The process of how policies derive their meaning. * Contemporary challenges and opportunities in environmental policymaking. Strategies for successful policymaking in the contemporary landscape.', '10'])
(['90801', 'Media & Communication Design I', "['Gary Franko']", 'The Media and Communication Design course focuses on using desktop publishing software to effectively communicate messages in printed form. The goal of this course is to use the combination of type; color; shapes; illustrations and images to produce professional printed materials. The skills learned in this course can easily be translated to other media. This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills. Most classes will consist of two thirds lecture and one third hands-on work with the software. The software being taught is Adobe InDesign Creative Cloud (CC); Adobe Illustrator CC and Adobe Photoshop CC. Students will gain experience in preparing documents that are professional in form and content. Student will learn how to design and publish products such as newsletters; posters; logos; packaging; signs; books; flyers; magazines; annual reports; invitations and advertisements. Students will also learn the terminology; procedures and production requirement to effectively communicate with ad agencies; design firms and commercial printers.', '6'])
(['90802', 'Public Policy Analytics: Cases & Issues', '["Timothy O\'Loughlin"]', 'How can an algorithm used to identify children at risk of mistreatment be hailed as a success in Pennsylvania; useless in New Zealand and the subject of legal action by citizens in Scotland? Are data techniques applied to the criminal justice systems prone to racial bias? What rights should citizens have over the dissemination and use of data collected on them by governments? What redress should citizens have when data anonymized by governments is re-identified? The course concludes with a critical examination of some contemporary issues emerging from the use of dig data in the public policy arena such as perceptions of disempowerments and assertions of accountability deficits. We all know that the same big data techniques applied successfully in the commercial world are being turned to use by governments. However; the relationship between governments and their citizens is vastly more complex than the relationship between companies and their existing and prospective customers. This course focusses on the management issues that arise for governments looking to big data applications for better performance. In taking this perspective it traverses the various levers available to governments such as legislation; administrative reform and participative democracy as well as the pitfalls. The ultimate aim is to develop sound understandings of the principles which public policy professionals using big data techniques can apply to achieve successful outcomes for both governments and their citizens.', '6'])
(['90804', 'Media & Communication Design II', "['Gary Franko']", 'This course builds on the Media Communication Design I class. In the Media Communication Design II class we focused on print design; in the Media Communication Design II class we will expand to infographic design; audio; animation and video. We will explore Adobe Illustrator to create info graphics. We will be using Adobe Audition to create a podcast; Adobe After Effects CC to create animations and Apple Final Cut Pro/Adobe Premiere to create videos. The goal of this course is produce professional materials using type; color; illustrations; images; sound; animation and video. These materials will be able to engage and influence your target audience. This course will teach a combination of media design skills and software skills. Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications: Adobe Illustrator CC Apple Final Cut Pro Adobe Audition Adobe Premiere Adobe After Effects CC. Each of the above software programs will have one project/assignment that will be completed by the student. These applications are available in the classroom as well as several public clusters. While the class offers a jump-start to these applications; students are expected to explore the higher level features on their own. Another resource is the Internet - which offers a wealth of tips and techniques for these applications. Prerequisite: Desktop Publishing 90-801', '6'])
(['90807', 'Planning by Design: Campuses; Waterfronts; Districts; and Cities', "['Ray Gastil']", 'The focus of this seminar is the connection between design decisions and urban development; and how a better understanding of this relationship will contribute to knowledge; policy and practice of a robust and forward-looking contemporary urbanism. The seminar draws on the instructors research; teaching; and practice including current projects; focusing on urban design and planning current projects relevant to international; North American; and Pittsburgh perspectives. The course is divided into three units: The Campus in Context; Waterfronts in Transition; and Districts and Design--how urban districts achieve and sustain a meaningful density of interaction and opportunity; and the role of architecture; design; and arts in that achievement. These built environments is that they test the capacity of architecture and development to propose meaningfully complex and resilient program and form; from city centers to polycentric regions. The seminar will address how the design and planning of campuses; waterfronts; and specific districts can build up--or tear down--a robust urbanism: to better understand the decisions that can lead to an urbanism that is experientially stimulating; architecturally rich; local and global; and diverse and deep enough for the long term. Each unit will be four weeks; with Campus and Waterfronts completed before Spring Break; the third; Districts; follows; and the semester ends with the final two weeks focused on a synthesizing research project and presentations.', '12'])
(['90808', 'Energy Policy', "['Jeffrey Kupfer']", 'This seminar will provide an introduction to modern U.S. energy policy. Our goal will be to understand; from a practical perspective; how economics; technology; politics; public opinion and national security all influence the development and implementation of policy. Questions that we will address include: Why has energy and the environment taken on such a critical role in the public policy agenda? How has U.S. energy policy changed over the years and what lessons have we learned from past initiatives? How much influence does government really have? How have new technologies changed the energy landscape and our interactions with other countries? The class will begin with an overview of the energy sector and the related government structure. After covering some historical context; we will discuss Presidential initiatives and legislative activity. We will then consider some case studies; such as the Keystone Pipeline; the development of the Marcellus Shale; and carbon pricing that demonstrate conflicting viewpoints about appropriate energy policy. The class will also explore international energy security issues like liquefied natural gas and crude oil exports. This course is a seminar class; I will provide a framework and then guide a discussion among the students. Your preparation and participation are essential. Each session will begin with a short review and discussion of current events in the energy sector; including how energy and environmental issues are being addressed in the November elections. We will also hear from guest speakers; including a number of current and former senior government officials.', '6'])
(['90810', 'Social Movements', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'Dates of the course: October 2nd and 9th. Both in the U.S. and in other societies; social movements have been at the forefront of economic and political change. In this micro course; we will explore the complex nature of social movements; the potential impacts of movements; the elements that influence the movements success; and the relationship between movements and institutions; including the policy and political effects of selected movements. The course will include lectures; class discussions; and presentations by guest speakers. Course will take place October 2nd and 9th.', '3'])
(['90812', 'Introduction to Programming with Python', "['John Ostlund'; 'Martin Barrett']", 'This course focuses on the fundamentals of computer programming using the Python interpreted programming language. This course is designed for students with little or no programming knowledge. Students will develop their problem solving skills using the top-down procedural programming approach to build standalone software applications. Assignments will include weekly homework; bi-weekly checkpoint quizzes; and a final examination to test essential programming and problem solving skills. Some OOP (object oriented programming) will be used in this course. Learners will study how to build professional; user-friendly computer programs applicable to real-world usage in such areas as public policy and security analysis. Please note: Students who have taken this course should not take Data Focused Python; except for MSPPM-DA students. Objectives: Use the Python IDLE integrated development environment in interactive and script mode to both test code snippets and author professional programs. Develop problem solving skills through practice and understanding of the top-down procedural programming and Object Oriented Programming methodologies. Perform calculations; evaluate numerical relations and logical expressions; manipulate character strings; and utilize Pythons decision and loop structures. Form and manipulate collections of data (such as lists; tuples; sets; and dictionaries). Produce modules of functions for code reuse. Solve real-world problems using the Python language.', '6'])
(['90818', 'Lean Performance Improvement Lab: H C', "['Margaret Falbo']", 'This course provides an overview of the current state of the quality movement in Health Care. A public health perspective as well as an individual perspective will be considered from both a U.S. and international view. Relevant history; current gurus; landmark publications; theories; tools; and environmental factors will be discussed. We will explore the cost/quality connection and analyze the complex forces that shape or hinder the transformation of health care from the current state to a person centered quality focused Health Care System. We will learn to use industrial models to improve processes in the health care industry. The concepts and skills needed to create a work environment where these tools can be utilized will also be explored.', '6'])
(['90819', 'Intermediate Programming with Python', "['Martin Barrett']", 'This course is the follow-on to Introduction to Programming with Python. It assumes basic knowledge of Python control constructs; functions; files; data structures; and the numpy library. The course will cover gathering data from various sources including web scraping; web APIs; CSV and other structured data files; and databases; data cleansing; using the pandas library for data analysis; regular expressions and other string processing methods; classes and object-oriented programming; and building real-world software applications.', '6'])
(['90822', 'Critical Analysis of Policy Research', "['Brian Kovak']", 'This course prepares students to understand; interpret; and critique existing policy research. The course focuses on the development of three essential skills for policy analysts: 1) Read and interpret empirical results in published research. 2) Understand the assumptions needed to infer causal relationships and assess their plausibility. 3) Recognize common problems in policy research; including reverse causality; omitted variables; measurement error; etc.; and use graphical methods to determine the direction of the resulting statistical bias. Using these three skills; students will practice understanding and critiquing policy research. Moreover; by identifying and understanding potential problems; students can make valid conclusions even from seriously flawed research. At the end of the class; students demonstrate these skills by independently evaluating an existing piece of research of their choice; presenting their findings in a written report and in-class presentation.', '6'])
(['90823', 'Program Evaluation', "['Christopher Spera'; 'Amelia Haviland']", 'In this course you will learn how to gather and synthesize evidence to address this question. Program evaluation is the systematic application of social science methods to assess each aspect of a program: the need for the program; the programs design and implementation; and ultimately the programs impact on relevant outcomes. A completed program evaluation results in (1) information regarding the programs merit; worth; or significance; (2) an accounting of the objective strengths and limitations of this information and (3) the implications of both (1) and (2) for decision making. Program evaluations differ as much as the social programs they evaluate. Social programs may carry them out internally; or an external organization may be brought in. An evaluation may be highly quantitative or entirely qualitative; it may focus exclusively on needs assessment or assessing program implementation. Evaluations and their results may be highly politically charged or of interest only to direct stakeholders. There are excellent program evaluations that have had tremendous positive impacts on programs and their target populations. There are also poor or flawed program evaluations that provide weaker information than could have been obtained; provide incorrect information; or are misleading. This course is designed to familiarize the student with the central concepts and methods of program evaluation. Students will be taught how to conduct basic program evaluations as well as how to critique and monitor more comprehensive program evaluations. Successful completion of this course will prepare students to be contributing members of teams that design and carry out program evaluations or that commission program evaluations and make decisions based upon their results.', '12'])
(['90824', 'Cost Benefit Analysis', "['Anthony Cheesebrough']", 'Individuals and organizations are frequently presented with decisions about how best to allocate limited resources. Public organizations in particular have an obligation to use consistent and transparent analytic tools to inform tradeoffs among competing policy priorities such as the environment; health; safety; and security. Economics provides a theoretical foundation for the allocation of scarce resources; but in practice; there are a variety of challenges in measuring benefits and costs in quantitative and monetary terms. Such challenges include determining how to value benefits and costs experienced in the future; reductions in the risk of premature death and injury; and the distribution of these impacts among affected populations; as well as appropriately characterizing uncertainty. The ability to assess key assumptions and limitations is critical for both producers and consumers of cost-benefit analysis. Learning Objectives Through lectures; discussions; readings; problem sets; written assignments; and presentations; students will develop knowledge and skills that will enable them to: Apply the analytic tools and techniques of cost-benefit analysis and microeconomics in the formulation and assessment of real-world policies. Contribute to the development of defensible and transparent cost-benefit analyses. Understand and identify the assumptions and limitations of cost-benefit analyses. Critically assess cost-benefit analyses conducted by others. Evaluate and compare alternative policies using the tools of cost-benefit analysis and microeconomics. Communicate the results of the cost-benefit analysis to stakeholders in such a way as to facilitate political or administrative processes. Prerequisites Students must have completed EITHER 90-709 Intermediate Economic Analysis OR 90-710 Applied Economic Analysis; as well as 90-711 Empirical Methods.', '6'])
(['90832', 'Health Law', "['Tina Hershey']", 'This course introduces students to the laws that impact the provision of health care services. With the increasing intersection between health care and the law; executives and others involved in the administration and delivery of health care services are likely to encounter a wide range of legal and regulatory issues; particularly as the fate of the Affordable Care Act is debated. This course is designed to provide students with the practical knowledge needed to identify legal issues inherent in health care and to understand the legal ramifications of administrative and management decisions. Specific course topics include: sources of law; the US court system and legal procedures; professional and institutional liability; governmental regulatory methods; antitrust law; fraud laws; corporate compliance programs; issues concerning informed consent; credentialing of medical professionals; termination of care; and health care reform. Upon completion of this course the student should be able to: 1. Explain the US legal system and sources of law in the United States. 2. Recognize and apply laws; regulations; and policies that govern the administration and delivery of health care services. 3. Identify potential legal ramifications of health care management and administrative decisions. 4. Identify issues that warrant seeking the assistance of legal counsel.', '6'])
(['90833', 'Population Health', "['Ellen Beckjord'; 'Harold Safferstein']", 'It is a societal imperative that we improve the quality of health for all Americans while reducing the cost. In so doing; we must move from a reactionary; disease driven; hospital-dominated model to one that creates the appropriate level of incentives and health delivery infrastructure so that patients embrace strategies to prevent disease and promote healthy living and behavior. What is Population Health and what role do individuals; executive branch agencies; and non-profits play in the protection and promotion of positive health outcomes? How are health outcomes assessed? In this introductory course; we will examine the way health care delivery systems; public health agencies; community-based organizations; and many other entities work together to develop interventions to improve the health outcomes in the local; national; and global communities they serve. We will first learn to examine health issues from a population health perspective.', '6'])
(['90834', 'Health Care Geographical Information Systems', "['Kristen Kurland'; 'David Steier']", 'A geographic information system (GIS) provides an effective way to visualize; organize and manage a wide variety of information including administrative and medical record data; social services; and other location data. Public health departments; hospitals; and medical research agencies are using GIS to map health-related events; identify disease clusters; investigate environmental health problems; and understand the spread of disease. This course uses a unique approach for teaching GIS in health care. It imbeds learning how to use GIS software in the context of carrying out projects for visualizing and analyzing health-related data. Each week includes lectures and computer labs that focus on a health; technical; or policy issue which use Esris ArcGIS Pro and Platform technologies to analyze data or solve a problem. Students learn to create Story Maps to convey their maps and associated text to the public and decision makers. Through assignments and projects students will not only learn how to use the software but will also learn the many distinctive advantages of using GIS for health care policy making and planning. By the end of the course; students will have sufficient background so that they can become expert users of GIS in health care organizations - building; managing; and using GIS maps and health data. Prerequisites: 90-728 Introduction to Database Management; 91-802 Information Systems for Managers or permission of instructor.', '12'])
(['90835', 'Special Topics: Designing Smart and Healthy Systems', '[]', 'Designing Smart and Healthy Systems: Applying AI and Data Science to Healthcare. This course is designed to give students who took 49-733: Designing Smart Systems a chance to apply and grow their AI and data science skills in the context of a hands-on design and programming project in healthcare. The project focus will be on the appropriate use of interventions to increase patient engagement and medication adherence. In addition to the project; classes will survey a number of applications of AI and data science in health care and life sciences; with a focus on the unique challenges of using health care data and deploying smart systems for patients and clinicians. We will build on the machine learning concepts introduced in 49-733 with advanced work in behavioral economics; optimization; phenotype discovery and more. Prerequisites: Statistics; Python programming and 49-733 or equivalent experience.', '6'])
(['90836', 'Health Systems', "['James Jordan']", 'Health Policy and Delivery Systems is a foundation course intended to introduce students to many of the broad subjects that will be detailed in more advanced course work. This introduction provides a framework to aid students in navigating from public policy through to healthcare delivery. Public policy is the study of the written and unwritten principles on which law is based. Laws and regulations translate policy into action. Public policy and laws form the basis of health policy. Health policy is supported by: - Public health initiatives focused on preventing disease; prolonging life and promoting health for the entire population. (i.e. diabetes awareness) - Population health is interested in the outcomes of individual groups and the distribution of outcomes among the groups. (i.e. income equality and infant mortality) - Healthcare delivery is focused on access; quality; and cost. At this time in our history; Healthcare Reform best embodies the intent of this aspect of health policy. Through the use of group assignments; students will create a model which links the external environment into healthcare delivery profitability. Modeling is a form of combining individual technical components with the greater knowledge and conceptualization of the entire process. Its promise is to promote better decision making by envisioning how micro decisions interconnect to mission; goals; and outcomes.', '6'])
(['90838', 'Database Management for Policy Analytics', "['Karyn Moore']", 'This semester-long course on database management systems is intended for students studying data analytics in non-technical graduate degree programs. The course provides these students a solid understanding of concepts; and development of skills relevant for the efficient and successful management; access; and analysis of small or big data captured by relational database systems. In addition to coverage of important theories and concepts; students will develop knowledge of and skill in using the Oracle 12C Database Management System; a relational database management platform utilized by many organizations. Topics covered include: fundamental concepts of database management systems; the relational model including relational algebra; SQL and Advanced SQL including query optimization and tuning; conceptual data modeling using UML; logical database design; including normalization; physical database organization and data access methods; database APIs; data preprocessing for analytics; overview of other analytic-related data technologies such as NoSQL; data warehousing; and data lakes.', '12'])
(['90839', 'Global Health Security', "['Jack Chow']", 'The course will be offered 12-5pm; Saturday; Feb 27 and Sat; March 6; 2021. This micro-mini course serves as an introduction to global health security and its intricate links to international relations and international development. As societies and economies are increasingly interconnected and thus interdependent; new forms of health security threats are arising; and nations are investing more in mutual preparedness and are conducting new forms of soft power diplomacy to mitigate those risks. In recent years; the realm of health security has expanded greatly with more governments; companies; and NGOs working to address both nascent and persistent threats. Over an immersive weekend of overview and interaction; this micro-mini highlights prominent threat categories; namely the 3-D threats of Disaster; Disease; and Disorder; with complex humanitarian crises showcasing the latter threat. To illustrate factors at work; time will be devoted to deep dives using case studies and readings on prominent events. This seminar-style course will serve as an active policy laboratory in which your ideas are solicited and further shaped with the participation of the class cohort. Practical frameworks will be employed to simplify the dynamics within complex situations; and to organize your thinking about actions and options. An overnight diagramming activity assessing a humanitarian crisis between the first and second day activates analytical skills regarding causative determinants; strategic goals; and implementation of action plans. The course welcomes all learners from a wide range of knowledge; from the novice to the experienced. The course relies on active participation that feeds a mutual learning environment and that catalyzes and reveals students ideas as they occur; thereby fostering an at-the-ready style of nimble thinking and conversing.', '3'])
(['90843', 'Dev Fin Tools for Sustainable Econ Dev', "['Tobias Rittner']", 'This course will take place on March 27th and 28th; 2021. Economic development is driven largely by funding and financing opportunities. Nearly every redevelopment; business expansion; community facility and infrastructure project hinges on the availability of affordable; patient and flexible capital. When addressing sustainability in economic development; funding and finance are even more critical. The lack of funding and finance can result in the ability for projects and programs to move forward in an effective manner. From the bedrock tools like bonds and targeted tool like tax increment to tax credit investment and access to capital lending programs; the development finance toolbox provides financing options that cover the entire development continuum. Unlocking the Development Finance Toolbox to Support Sustainable Economic Development will explore the intersection of development; sustainability and finance with an in depth review of the financing tools that catalyze and drive job growth and economic expansion. This course will not only explore the tools behind effective development but also examine success projects and programs that are driving communities towards a sustainable future.', '3'])
(['90845', 'Social Entrepreneurship', "['Leah Lizarondo-Espino'; 'Timothy Zak']", 'With a world threatened by rising inequalities (especially in the post-pandemic time) and the effects of climate change; we are in the middle of an era where we are seeing the growth of social entrepreneurship - both in the upsurge of new ventures and within corporations as they seek to respond to demand from their consumers and the public toward a focus not solely on profit; but on a triple bottom line - an equivalent focus on PURPOSE -- people and the planet. This course is for students that want to learn how to take ideas that respond to societal needs and frame it within a sustainable business structure. Ideas may be for new social ventures or innovations within existing institutions and corporations. The students will work on an idea they have and take it through a model accelerator program curriculum. Accelerators are fixed-term cohort-based programs that include seed investment; mentorship; a curriculum that aims to fast forward business planning and strategy and culminate in what is typically called demo day - an opportunity for participating teams to present to potential investors. The course is open to students from different disciplines. This course will utilize online resources as well as readings culled from leading resources on lean business planning. It is an applied learning course and will require working practical knowledge of basic financial statements. At the end of the course; students will be able to take an idea through a model accelerator curriculum - from establishing a mission; vision; theories of change and impact pathways to market and competitive analysis; identifying target markets; customer acquisition; basic financial modeling to crafting the pitch deck. Students will be able to understand a basic structure to business modeling that they can use to form the basic guiding foundations to future new ventures - as startups or as innovations within corporations.', '9'])
(['90855', 'Leadership/Management Seminar: How Washington Works', '[]', 'If you want to get something accomplished in Washington you need to know how it works. The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the important institutions in Washington; the context of why they are important and how they interact with each other. Regardless of whether you are a policy or management analyst in the public or private sector in Washington; understanding how Washington works will help you produce higher quality products and more impactful analysis. Understanding the bigger picture will help you ask better questions and be more thorough. Over the course of a Mini-semester; the students will learn about these organizations and functions through readings and lectures; and hear directly from leaders in these organizations and functions.', '7'])
(['90858', 'How Ideas Become Policy', "['Sarah Mendelson']", 'This course examines case studies of how ideas become policy in the United States across a number of administrations. Case studies in class will mainly cover foreign policy topics but will include some discussion of domestic policy and politics. (Students are free to write on any policy topic of their choosing.) Classes include group discussions as well as engagement with former policymakers who worked inside government to make change happen and advocates who helped propel policy changes from outside government. In readings; writing assignments; and class discussions; we will analyze what works in getting ideas translated into policy as well as examples of failure. The cases will cover proactive policieswhat are we for?as well as reactive oneshow best to respond to a crisis? How best to mitigate or reverse damaging policy? The role of individuals and personalities emerge as important factors. Paradigm-shifting events have an impact as well as do campaigns or specific strategies for messaging and building alliances. While no secret sauce for policymaking exists; students will explore lessons learned and actively engage in creating a toolkit on how to get stuff done in Washington.', '6'])
(['90860', 'Policy in a Global Economy', "['Lee Branstetter'; 'Brian Kovak']", 'From the dawn of the New Deal through the presidency of Barack Obama; the U.S. led the development of an open; global system of relatively free trade and global capital flows. In the current political environment; leaders on both the American political left (like Senator Bernie Sanders) and the political right (like Donald Trump); have called into question this bipartisan consensus in favor of freer trade and investment. That turn away from globalization has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Was the earlier pro-globalization consensus wrong? Is globalization good or bad for the U.S. economy? What are the impacts of globalization on the rest of the world? How has economic globalization impacted the environment and income inequality in the U.S. and around the world? How should the Biden Administration seek to manage international economic policy? This course provides future policy makers and managers with the knowledge and analytical tools necessary to understand economic globalization and its effects. These issues will be studied using the analytical tools and concepts of international economics. Guest lectures and case studies will provide a range of perspectives on current policy debates. The course will also examine science-based policies that could maximize the benefits and minimize the disruption generated by globalization. The fall 2021 version of the course will examine the global macroeconomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ways in which international policy coordination -- or lack thereof -- worsened that impact.', '10.5'])
(['90861', 'Health Policy', "['David Dausey']", 'This course introduces students to the concepts; theories; and tools of health policy. The aims of this course are to provide students with (1) the ability to identify key problems facing the United States health system; (2) increase the appreciation for and understanding of health policy as an important and useful tool for enhancing population health; and (3) mechanisms to address a current health policy issue from legal; economic; behavioral; and political perspectives. In addition; students will be introduced to a cross-national comparison of health systems.', '6'])
(['90865', 'Policy and Leadership in Public Education', "['Tara Tucci']", 'This course introduces students to policy issues in public education while simultaneously building the skills to lead change through authentic assignments and in-class collaboration. The course addresses both the what and the how of leading policy change; combining content presentation and discussion with an iterative approach to each assignment. The content of the course will consist of four aspects of education policy: 1) the basics: the purpose of schooling as well as the current structure and legislative landscape within K-12 public education in the United States; 2) what is taught: policy and practice around curriculum; standards; and assessment; 3) who teaches: human capital strategy and policy and 4) where does education take place: school design and structure; including opportunities for transforming how students learn.', '6'])
(['90871', 'Policy and Gender Workshop', "['Susan Markham']", 'Meeting Dates: Saturday; September 25; 10am - 4pm and Sunday; September 26; 10am- 3pm While other courses examine policies that disproportionately impact women; this micro course will look at an range of current policy issues and explore the previously under-examined gender aspects; and impacts; of these policies. Students will be exposed to research and various tools used to conduct gender analyses. Using a foundational understanding of gender analysis; students will review current policy proposals; analyze and report on how gender plays a role in the policy implementation; and make recommendations to improve the proposals so that they will achieve greater gender equality.', '3'])
(['90872', 'Using R for Policy Data Analysis', "['M Sermons'; 'Trevor Filipiak']", 'Data analysis is an essential part of quantitative policy analysis; however; focused application of statistical methods is outside of the scope of what can be taught in classes such as Cost -Benefit Analysis (CBA) and Program Evaluation. In this course; students who will apply a variety of data analysis techniques using R; a free open source statistics and graphical analysis environment that is increasingly used by data miners and analysts. Class sessions will include a combination of instruction on data analysis techniques; in-class application using R; and presentations by practicing policy data analysts. Applications will focus on analysis that is relevant to the social safety net; including cases that focus on consumer protection; affordable housing and homelessness.', '6'])
(['90874', 'Special Topics: Principles & Practices of R&D Management', "['David Charlton']", 'This course considers key issues and trade-off in RD strategy and organization; paying attention to dynamic competitive contexts where technology plays a key role. These topics are treated assuming the perspective of the decision maker. It addresses typical problems of large; medium and small firms having a structured RD and operating businesses where RD is the source of competitive advantages. Although we will heavily focus on RD; emphasis is placed on viewing RD as a part (although; a key part) of the process of technological innovation; therefore; as an activity to be strongly and appropriately integrated with other functions to make innovation successful.', '6'])
(['90880', 'Behavioral Economics', "['Mark Patterson'; 'Alex Imas']", 'This course introduces students to behavioral economics; an emerging subfield of economics that incorporates insights from psychology and other social sciences into economics. We will examine evidence on how human behavior systematically departs from the standard assumptions of economics; and then investigate attempts by behavioral economists to improve economic analyses.', '12'])
(['90882', 'Behavioral Economics in Public Policy', "['George Loewenstein']", 'Economics has up to now been the social science that has been most broadly and deeply involved in public policy. With its rational choice perspective; the economic perspective has tended to favor certain types of policies; namely those that enhance the efficiency of market mechanisms and lower the cost of information. In this course we will spend the first several classes reviewing the assumptions; implications for public policy; and limitations of the rational choice perspective. The remainder of the course will then be devoted to examining different public policy issues; including saving; health care; crime and drug abuse; through the competing lenses of traditional and behavioral economics.', '12'])
(['90885', 'Data Visualization and Dashboards', "['Trevor Filipiak']", 'This course is designed to introduce data visualization as an analytical tool; a medium of communication; and the basis for interactive information dashboards. Students will learn best practices in data visualization; sharpen analytical skills; and learn how to design dashboards for use by stakeholders. Students will have the opportunity to practice skills on concrete deliverables; and will synthesize course material in a comprehensive team-based final project. This project will reinforce comfort with the Tableau software package and will provide a portfolio item for students. Students will use Tableau as their main tool to visualize data and develop dashboards but will develop transferrable skills which can apply to many of the most popular software packages in the current marketplace.', '6'])
(['90888', 'DC Fellowship Practicum I', "['Marie Coleman']", 'The DC Fellowship Practicum I is designed to assist students in getting the most out of their DC experience; specifically focused on helping the student succeed in their Apprenticeship and DC classes and be poised to effectively launch their career in Washington. The class will include: Workshops and events that will introduce the student to a variety of career development tools and training sessions to support their professional growth; Group discussions and interactive activities designed to develop a stronger understanding of Washington DC organizations and their role in the public good; and Mentoring/coaching of students in individual and group settings to help them work through issues or problems as they arise.', '4.3'])
(['90893', 'Policy Topics: Environment Policy', "['Darrell Winner']", 'This class will challenge students to consider and evaluate current environmental problems while developing tools for working in the policy world. Students will explore approaches from both environmental economics and policy; including regulatory; market-based; and voluntary tools. Students will apply their knowledge of cost-benefit analysis to controversial issues and discover and debate key challenges. The current issues will draw students to consider issues of governance; such as the reach of executive authority and the relationship between federal and state government. In exploring these matters of policy design and environmental management; the course will analyze issues in climate change; air quality; water policy; energy supply; and resource management.', '6'])
(['90894', 'Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy', "['George Krumbhaar']", 'Why do we have such large budget deficits? Why does Congress have such a hard time getting to agree on budget policy? Why is there such pork barrel spending and government waste in Washington? The answers to these questions; and others like them; require a detailed knowledge of the law and politics that lie behind the budget process; and the difficult policy choices that make up that process each year. This course proceeds simultaneously along two tracks. Track I will cover the law and procedures you need to understand how the federal budget is formulated and acted upon. This sounds dull; but it isnt For good reason; people call Congress the worlds greatest soap opera; and the budget process; while complex; is full of political warfare; the clashing of egos; and the constant pressure of voter demands. Those who know the law and procedures can gain an advantage over others in the struggle for dollars and the way they get spent. While in this phase of the course; you will be assigned mini-briefs: short oral presentations on certain technical aspects of the budget. Track II will introduce you to some of the important budget issues that have made life so difficult for Republicans and Democrats alike: working out an effective budget process; balancing the budget; funding budget priorities with limited resources; and deciding how much (and how) to tax workers and investors. When we are working on Track II; you will develop two-pagers; the kinds of memoranda and statements written by congressional staff and political advisers.', '6'])
(['90896', 'Policy Topics: Sustainable Development', "['Larry Garber'; 'Susan Reichle']", 'In September 2015; the United Nations General Assembly approved The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; which establish an ambitious set of goals for achieving development progress in a prescribed time frame. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent the latest effort by the international community to encourage and facilitate broad-based progress across multiple sectors in individual countries. The SDGs reflect an optimists perspective regarding international development. Optimists highlight the tremendous progress in improving the quality of human life that has been made during the past 200 years; and in particular since the end of World War II. Building on this record; achieving the SDGs will mark a notable step forward in addressing the most serious inequities that exist across the globe; including extreme poverty; food insecurity; illiteracy; and inadequate health care. SDGs aside; pessimists worry about the enormous challenges currently confronting the international community. They note that by 2050 global population will reach 9.6 billion people. To feed an increasingly affluent number of people; we will need 70 percent more food production and a doubling of available water and arable land; which will come at the expense of existing natural systems. The availability of these essential inputs is further complicated by the reality that the planet is undergoing vast biological and physical changes due to climate change and environmental degradation. Human communities are changing as well. More than 50 percent of the worlds population live in urban areas and 75 percent of the worlds largest cities will be found in the developing world over the next few decades. These mega-urban areas create their own challenges from the spread of pandemic diseases; to sanitation; to energy needs. Please see the Heinz College course catalog for the more: https://api.heinz.cmu.edu/courses_api/course_detail/90-896', '6'])
(['90901', 'Ph.D. Seminar I', "['Daniel Nagin'; 'Brian Kovak']", 'This seminar is intended for all first-year PhD students in the Heinz College to introduce the research process and bring first-year students into the intellectual community at Heinz. The seminar includes presentations by Heinz College faculty; student presentations of existing research; and presentations from second-year Heinz College students. Through these experiences; students will - Become familiar with the kinds of research being done at Heinz - Find faculty and students with similar research interests - Understand the unseen steps (and missteps) along the way to a published paper - Experience presenting technical research to a diverse audience - Learn to provide helpful feedback on research presentations', '12'])
(['90906', 'Phd Econometrics I', "['Edson Severnini']", 'Empirical research is most valuable when it uses data to answer specific causal questions; as if in a randomized clinical trial. In the absence of a real experiment; we look for well-controlled comparisons and/or natural quasi-experiments. Some research designs are more convincing than others; but the econometric methods behind them are almost always fairly simple. This course provides an introduction to the most important items in an applied econometricians toolkit: (i) analysis of randomized controlled trials; (ii) regression models designed to control for variables that may mask the causal effects of interest; (iii) difference-in-differences-type strategies that use repeated observations to control for unobserved omitted factors; and (iv) instrumental variables and regression discontinuity methods for the analysis of real and natural experiments. In this course; emphasis will be given to conceptual issues and statistical techniques that turn up in the applied research we read and do. Many empirical examples will illustrate these ideas and techniques. Within the Heinz College; 90-906 is appropriate for first-year PhD students plus first and second year Masters students who desire and are prepared for a rigorous course in econometrics as a base for more advanced research methodology. Outside the Heinz school; 90-906 may be of interest to graduate students in Engineering and Public Policy; Social and Decision Science; Software Engineering; Psychology; GSIA; Philosophy; Applied History; or Architecture who need background in econometrics targeted toward social and policy research.', '12'])
(['90907', 'Econometric Theory and Methods', "['Akshaya Jha']", 'This course covers a number of econometric models and techniques that are commonly used in applied microeconomics. The core topics include a general framework for estimators (which includes maximum likelihood and generalized method of moments); discrete outcome models; sample selection (and related limited dependent variable or switching models); duration and count models; time series models; panel data models; variance estimation (including clustering and the bootstrap); and non-parametric techniques. The course is designed for PhD students who have completed 90-907 (PhD Econometrics I) or an equivalent course.', '12'])
(['90908', 'Ph.D. Microeconomics', "['Brian Kovak']", 'This course provides a semester-long introduction to microeconomic analysis and its application. The primary objective of the course is to familiarize students with the microeconomic paradigm and develop an appreciation of the usefulness (and limitations) of microeconomic analysis. A further goal of the course is to develop and exercise students ability to use economic analysis in examining applied issues and more generally to help students acquire formal modeling skills -- the ability to reduce real-world problems to useful and mathematically tractable representations. This course is designed for the following students: (i) Ph.D. students who want to increase their exposure to microeconomics but do not expect to use formal microeconomics in their research (i.e. students for whom this course is likely to be their last course in microeconomics); (ii) Ph.D. students who plan to study microeconomics beyond the introductory level of this course but do not have the background for the microeconomic sequence offered at GSIA; and (iii) M.S. students who have an especially strong background in mathematics. Notice that this course is not a close substitute for the first course in the Tepper microeconomics sequence. Students who want to take more advanced microeconomics courses and who have the preparation are encouraged to investigate the courses offered at Tepper. There are no formal prerequisites for this course. However; students are assumed to have a solid working knowledge of multivariate calculus. You will take a brief math quiz in the first lecture to help you determine whether your math training is sufficient for the course. Prior exposure to microeconomics; in a good undergraduate-level course; is helpful but not required.', '12'])
(['90918', 'Ph.D. Seminar III', "['Daniel Nagin'; 'Brian Kovak']", 'Students will work with their faculty advisor(s) to develop a draft of their First Research Paper and present that paper to the PhD Seminar I for feedback on its quality.', '12'])
(['94700', 'Organizational Design & Implementation', '[\'David Lassman\'; \'David Krackhardt\'; "Timothy O\'Loughlin"]', 'This course draws on insights and knowledge about organizational behavior with an eye toward using such information for managing in complex organizations. It is intended to provide managers with skills and perspectives that will enable them to work successfully in organizations. Specific topics will include work motivation leadership job design biases in managerial decision making understanding group processes building bases of power in organizations managing conflict and the relationship between the organization and its environment.', '6'])
(['94701', 'Business Writing', "['Kim Hyatt'; 'Haylee Massaro']", 'This course focuses on effective writing techniques for professionals. Assignments include a business proposal; an employment letter; a memo; a performance evaluation; and interoffice correspondence. Since writing is a cumulative skill; an emphasis is placed on the revision process through in-class workshops. Students learn to communicate professionally and succinctly using a variety of business formats.', '6'])
(['94702', 'Professional Writing', "['Gary Edwards'; 'Penny McCann'; 'Dana Rawls']", 'Communication in written form is an essential element of management. Employers value talent with an aptitude for the effective exchange of information and ideas. Accordingly; this course focuses on teaching transferable writing skills pertaining to content; organization; format; clarity; and tone. The course challenges students to convey critical thinking as they anticipate the perspectives of stakeholders in professional situations; consider feasibility; evaluate options; and provide recommendations. Class meetings entail readings; discussions; and editing sessions on the following topics: business correspondence; press releases; Web content; consulting reports; executive summaries and proposals. Coursework emphasizes precise; concise; persuasive writing based on authoritative sources. Overall; students are expected to demonstrate an interest in professional development beyond simply completing the assignments. Writing resources and sample documents are provided.', '6'])
(['94705', 'Health Economics', "['Martin Gaynor']", 'This course will teach the student to use economic analysis to understand critical issues in health care and health policy. We will address issues such as the following: 1. What factors best explain the level and rate of growth of U.S. health expenditures? 2. Does the recent high rate of growth of U.S. health care expenditures make U.S. firms less competitive in international markets? 3. What are some of the likely consequences (intended and unintended) of the proposed reforms to Medicare? 4. Can physicians induce demand for their services? 5. What are the impacts of managed care on the health care system? 6. Do strong affiliations between physicians and health plans hurt competition? The student who successfully completes this course will be able to: 1. Identify the flow of resources in the U.S. health care system how purchasers pay for their services and how providers obtain their revenues. 2. Understand the value of health and health care. 3. Evaluate how health care resources should be allocated. 4. Describe the structure of the health insurance industry explain the incentives facing insurers understand the strategies they use to compete and their impacts on social welfare. 5. Understand the demand for medical care and what role providers play in shaping this demand. 6. Explain the economics of managed care and describe how competition works in health care. Class will consist of lectures and group presentations. Evaluation will include homework problems group projects and exams. This course will interest any individual planning a career in health or related industries. It will also be of interest to students who wish to understand how economics is applied to some of our most prominent and contentious policy issues. Skill.', '12'])
(['94706', 'Healthcare Information Systems', "['Rema Padman']", 'In a value-based care delivery environment with its emphasis on improving costs and service efficiency without risking quality of care; information technology has emerged as a powerful driving force in helping to achieve multiple goals within healthcare organizations. The explosive advances in information technology combined with the current challenges facing healthcare delivery have created the need for skilled individuals who can develop; understand; manage; and integrate healthcare information systems in organizations. This course will explore the concepts and application of major information systems methodologies and approaches in the delivery of modern healthcare systems; including traditional face-to-face; online; and mobile and social media enabled care delivery. A semester-long group project that synthesizes the different topics via the design and implementation of a working; integrated; healthcare decision support application will be a required component of the course.', '12'])
(['94708', 'Applied Strategic Marketing', '[]', 'Marketing is going through a radical shift from traditional to digital; broadcast to hyper targeted; internally focused to collaborative across the extended organization. In addition; we are seeing a dramatic shift from a concentration on products and services driven through sales to focusing on customer experience and engagement. Historically; marketing decisions were based on intuition; anecdotal information; company capacity and what has worked in the past. John Wanamaker; a successful United States merchant who opened one of the first and most successful department stores in the United States; which grew to 16 stores and eventually became part of Macys; coined the term - Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble is I dont know which half. Dramatic shifts in the marketspace have resulted in changes in consumption; shocks to the supply chain and changes in how organization engage and interact with consumers. In addition; disruption patterns result in fragmentation threatening market share especially for incumbents. Marketing is increasingly being called on to assess organizational strategies to deal with these shifts. With an increasingly digitized society; data has allowed marketers to assess different channels for interaction; monitor the customer journey and measure interaction; brand awareness and consumer sentiment. Marketers are looking to develop individualized consumer experiences which is predicated on data as well as revising processes and interaction across the extended enterprise. Anticipation; resiliency and adaption to these evolving industry dynamics; shocks to the system and changing consumer expectations; is key for staying relevant and being able to take advantages of opportunities as they present themselves. This class is designed to provide students basics of modern marketing but more importantly how they are applied in todays environment.', '6'])
(['94718', 'Strategic Presentation Skills', "['David Griggs'; 'Marilyn Bodycoat']", 'As professionals; we present ourselves in a variety of ways; including the manner in which we collaborate; write; design visuals; and speak. Each of these influences how we are viewed; how others position us in an organisation and; in some cases; the pace at which we accelerate towards our career goals. The purpose of Strategic Presentation Skills is to use and further develop these skills to be able to produce and deliver focused; creative; evidence-driven approaches to the way we present ourselves verbally. Learning Objectives: - Speak with confidence and authority - Develop a clear outline that organises and structures information for a presentation - Apply good practice principles to presentations - Appropriately target and engage an audience - Apply principles of ethos; pathos; and logos - Use visual aids appropriately - Anticipate audience questions and respond confidently to them', '6'])
(['94728', 'Business Intelligence & Analytics', "['Murlikrishna Viswanathan']", 'Most businesses today use Business Intelligence technologies to analyze and transform data into actionable intelligence that supports an organizations strategic and tactical business decision decision making. This course provides potential IT managers with an understanding of the issues involved in designing; developing and implementing business intelligence solutions. In particular; the course will focus on specific technologies including data mining; data warehousing and data visualization. Students will be engaged with hand-on tutorials and assignments using cutting-edge data visualization; data cleansing and data mining tools for business intelligence. Case studies describing organizational experiences with business intelligence and analytics will be used to give a management focus. Ultimately the course provides insights into managerial issues relevant to these technologies along with strong hands-on experience using the tools themselves.', '6'])
(['94732', 'Managing Disruption in Media and Entertainment', '[]', 'In this course we will analyze how cheap and powerful computers and communication networks can change both marketing practice and the structure of industries. We will analyze these issues in the context of the entertainment industries publishing; music; and movies. However; my goal is that the underlying principles will be generalizable across a variety of industries.', '6'])
(['94774', 'Business Process Modeling', "['Karyn Moore']", 'Processes are the core technologies of all organizations for producing and delivering products and services that satisfy customer needs. Increasingly; in order to continue to serve their customers and remain competitive; organizations are required to continuously analyze; redesign; and improve their end-to-end core business processes in shorter and shorter time frames to achieve operational goals. Realizing this end-to-end business process integration requires an IT infrastructure that enables people; processes; and information to be integrated in a flexible manner.', '6'])
(['94775', 'Unstructured Data Analytics for Policy', "['George Chen']", 'Companies; governments; and other organizations now collect massive amounts of data such as text; images; audio; and video. How do we turn this heterogeneous mess of data into actionable insights? A common problem is that we often do not know what structure underlies the data ahead of time; hence the data often being referred to as unstructured. This course takes a practical approach to unstructured data analysis via a two-step approach: We first examine how to identify possible structure present in the data via visualization and other exploratory methods. Once we have clues for what structure is present in the data; we turn toward exploiting this structure to make predictions. Many examples are given for how these methods help solve real problems faced by organizations. There is a final project in this course which must address a policy question. How this course differs from 95-865 Unstructured Data Analysis: 95-865 emphasizes more of the technical skill development (assessed through two in-class exams involving coding); and does not have any sort of policy focus. 94-775 has a policy-focused final project instead of a final exam. 94-775 does not require cloud computing (part of 95-865 requires the use of Amazon Web Services). Despite these differences; there is heavy material overlap between 94-775 and 95-865. You cannot get credit for both 94-775 and 95-865.', '6'])
(['94800', 'Negotiation', "['Linda Moya'; 'Jared Simmer']", 'Welcome to Negotiation. You knew it all along: Life isnt fair. Perhaps what you didnt know; though; is that you can learn to do something about it. Negotiation is not only a talent you can be born with; its also a skill that can be learned This course focuses on improving fundamental negotiating competencies in personal and organizational contexts. Negotiation is both an art and a science. This course will teach you how to negotiate more effectively through a combination of assessments; exercises and simulations. In subject matter and approach this class is designed to provide understanding and insight into your present negotiating abilities; as well as challenge your comfort zone to allow for continuous improvement going forward. Negotiation is fast-paced; interactive and hands-on. Drawing upon current research and recognized best practices; we will emphasize both basic mastery and practical application of the subject matter covered. In that respect; and perhaps unlike your other classes at the Heinz College; this course will have elements of both education (learning about) and training (learning how to).', '6'])
(['94801', 'Acting for Management', "['Sandra Murphy'; 'Sandy Murphy']", 'Actors use tools (voice; body; focus; intention) to convey emotion and connect authentically audiences. Acting for Management will help you utilize the actors tools to become a more powerful and persuasive presenter; to feel more confident when communicating with others; to understand yourself and your audience and to show the world the best and most authentic version of you. Through in-class exercises; scene work and discussion; you will practice the craft of acting and learn how it can enhance your abilities as a person; manager and leader.', '6'])
(['94802', 'Geographic Information Systems', "['Kristen Kurland'; 'Sean Qian'; 'Christopher Goranson'; 'Zhen Qian']", 'NOTE: Students in Section A will have 4 live lectures: August 31; September 21; October 19 and November 9. These 4 sections will be held from 11:50 AM - 1:10 PM. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are information systems specifically designed to store and analyze geographic data. GIS represents almost all elements on the earth; such as roadways; rivers; utilities; cities; mountains; natural resources; energy infrastructure and so forth. GIS is used to visualize; analyze and compute the data about the world and human activities. What makes GIS different from other IS is that the data is stored and visualized on a map. The spatial analysis on the map reveals unique patterns in the geographic scope; which is the main advantage over table or text based data representation.', '12'])
(['94803', 'Consulting Lab', "['Stefan Labash']", 'Communication is the glue that holds consulting engagements; teams; and relationships together. Arguably; the better a consultant you are; the better a communicator you are; and the best communicators tend to make very good consultants (nice symmetry there). Poor communication and other soft skills can derail a consulting engagement and with it; a promising consulting career. As an example; a Gartner Group study found that 80 of all IT projects were late; over budget; or failed completely because of poor communication at the outset. This course will help students interested in a consulting career acquire new skills in everything from personal branding to asking high-value; incisive questions to building strong; long-term client relationships', '6'])
(['94806', 'Privacy in the Digital Age', "['Alessandro Acquisti'; 'Anne Connell']", 'Privacy is a complex and multi-faceted concept. This course combines technical; economic; legal; psychological; ethical; and policy perspectives to present a holistic view of its role and function in the digital age. The reduction of the cost of storing and manipulating information has led organizations to capture increasing amounts of information about individual behavior. New trade-offs have emerged for parties involved with privacy-enhancing or intrusive technologies: individuals want to avoid the misuse of the information they pass along to others; but they also want to share enough information to achieve satisfactory interactions; organizations want to know more about the parties with whom they interact; but they do not want to alienate them with policies deemed as intrusive. Is there a sweet spot that satisfies the interests of all parties? Is there a combination of technological solutions; economic incentives; and legal safeguards that is acceptable for the individual and beneficial to society? This course tries to address the above questions.', '6'])
(['94808', 'Management Consulting', "['Chris Brussalis'; 'Laura Synnott']", 'This is an applications course exploring the profession of management consulting and the art and science of providing management counsel to organizations in the public and private sectors. The course is designed to provide a framework for collaborating with organizations to solve problems and to execute projects efficiently and effectively. Students will explore and utilize practical tools that will enable them to solve problems and execute projects as external or internal consultants or as individual contributors or leaders within organizations. The course introduces frameworks as well as quantitative and qualitative methods that are typically used in management consulting.', '12'])
(['94811', 'Strategy Development', "['Timothy Zak']", 'Strategy can be thought of as delineating a territory in which an organization seeks to be unique and the evolution of a central idea through continually changing circumstances.But the very nature of strategy and strategy development regardless of whether its in the private; public; or nonprofit sectors is changing dramatically. Corporations are increasingly dealing with more viable competitors and emerging market opportunities; often driven by enabling technologies; from all over the world. Demand for government responses to social issues is increasing in an era of acute resource constraints. And social sector organizations are facing a wide array of competitors for smaller; more restricted pools of contributions and other forms of capital. Everybody wants to react faster; take advantage of opportunities sooner; and vanquish competitors more definitively. The notion of rigid 5-year strategic plans is becoming obsolete. This course simulates the real-world strategy development process from a senior management perspective. A historical overview of the field will be provided and a contemporary process for strategy formulation; along with alternative approaches; will be introduced and demonstrated throughout the course. Activities including situational and environmental analysis; internal capabilities assessment; and appropriate linkage to an organizations vision; mission; objectives; and historical performance will all be rigorously applied. A combination of theory and practice in all relevant aspects of strategy development will be emphasized. In addition; although these processes are most often attributed to private sector operations; this course is designed to consider the similarities and differences of strategy and strategy development in government entities and nonprofits as well. Please see the Heinz website for more information.', '6'])
(['94813', 'Project Management', "['Laura Synnott'; 'Danura Miriyagalla'; 'Jan MCconchie']", 'As organizations continue to look for ways to reduce costs; managers are often expected to oversee special projects in addition to their traditional responsibilities. When a project is too complex for one person to handle; the project manager is expected to lead a team of diverse employees to complete the assignment. This course will assist the project manager to break down a complex project into manageable segments; lead a diverse project team; and use effective tools to ensure that the project meets its deliverables and is completed within budget and on schedule. Over the course of the mini; students will complete a plan for an actual project; giving them valuable experience with the relevant tools and skills; including Microsoft Project software.', '6'])
(['94814', 'Evidence-Based Management', "['Denise Rousseau']", 'Contemporary managers are heavily swayed in their thinking and decisions by habit fads convention and unrealistic levels of confidence (March 2010; Pfeffer Sutton 2006). Managers practicing EBMgt learn how to rethink their approaches to data and knowledge in order to make more effective decisions. EBMgt means making decisions based on best obtainable evidence that is scientific findings and unbiased organizational facts. These decisions rely on decision processes that reduce bias and judgment errors and give due consideration to ethical concerns. This mini course promotes your understanding and use of EBMgt principles. It also guides you in developing the skills and knowledge needed to identify access and use quality evidence from science and practice in making better decisions. The instructor is committed to pursuing an evidence-based approach to the course itself. Scientific evidence strongly supports the effectiveness of active student participation in learning activities (Ambrose et al. 2010; Armstrong 2010; Tough 1971). Your success in this course will entail actively using evidence-based processes and practices. COURSE TOPICS What It Means to be an Evidence-Based Manager Decision Awareness: Types of Managerial Decisions and Evidence-Based Processes Finding Interpreting and Using Scientific Evidence as Managers (Critically Appraised Topics or CATs) Improving and Using Organizational Data: Creating Valid Information and Useful Knowledge from Raw Data Making it Easier to Use Evidence as a Manager: Logic Models Decision Aids and Communities of Practice Planning Your On-Going Development as an EBMgr...Read More', '6'])
(['94823', 'Measuring Social', "['Ari Lightman']", 'Measuring Social is an experiential learning class for graduate students across Carnegie Mellon. We bring in 5-7 corporate sponsors each semester (Spring Fall) they develop a project for the student teams to work on over the semester. Each project involves an element of measuring unstructured social data as well as providing recommendations based on its analysis. The class has been running since 2010 we have done over 120 projects in the class for close to 100 different unique clients including Marriot; Google; Warner Bros.; Sony PlayStation; Nike; Target; Ford; NYTimes; The Lincoln Center; American Express; The Gap; NBCUniversal; Microsoft; etc. We welcome graduate students from across CMU including Data Analytics; Public Policy; Entertainment Arts Management; Business/Tepper; CS/HCI; ECE; English Design. We socially engineer teams to add as much diversity as possible. Projects in the class vary from internal social network analysis to external client community engagement tactics through analyzing social data from thematic strings; sentiment analysis; community segments etc. As an example; a team working with Marriott used ML models to understand present benefit with deploying social influencers across different categories associated with brand recognition for their W hotel properties. Students teams have access to commercially available off the shelf software tools for social listening social intelligence we provide in class training. Students have reported many benefits associated with participating in the class including: Opportunity to work with students from across CMU with different experience/viewpoints; Engaging in a real world consultative project with a brand name company; Development of non-cognitive skills associated with problem solving; An opportunity to develop present recommendations/data models that in many cases get implemented by sponsoring organizations.', '12'])
(['94824', 'Creating Results-Oriented Programs', "['Matthew Hannigan']", 'Successful programs require more than just great ideas. From a programs initial planning and design through its execution and evaluation program managers must deftly deploy disparate skills and work closely with colleagues board members funders and constituents to measure understand and discuss programmatic results. In Creating Results-Oriented Programs graduate students will be introduced to tools and techniques to assist them in managing highly effective programs at small nonprofit and arts organizations. Students will explore the connections between program theory project budgets requests for support and reports on outcomes. Students will develop skills needed to build measures for success into program activities and use quantitative and qualitative assessments to make strategic decisions before during and after implementation. ...Read More', '6'])
(['94827', 'SAS for Public Policy', "['Gerald Hunter']", 'We use SAS to explore data processing and analysis. This course provides an introduction to the SAS programming applications with examples from real world policy analysis. We use publicly available datasets to gain practical experience as well as test dataset to learn programming concepts. While the course is designed to provide SAS programming skills; it will be an opportunity to apply statistical procedures learned in other courses. Basic SAS procedures; iterative processing; statistical procedures; and common data manipulation techniques are featured in the course.', '6'])
(['94828', 'Survey Design', "['Michael Bridges']", 'When was the last time you were asked to respond to a survey? Customer satisfaction surveys; alumni surveys; consumer product surveys; political surveys; health surveys; public opinion polls represent just a few of the types of surveys most of us routinely encounter. Moreover; national news organizations the popular press deliver the results from their latest surveys on a daily basis. To what extent can you trust the results? Are the survey results flawed by inappropriate survey design methods? This course introduces you to a set of principles methods in survey design that are the based on the scholarship that informs best practices in the field. We will use the concept of total survey error to frame an understanding of the key issues in survey research; including sampling frames; survey statistics; modes of data collection; non-response; question structure; wording; context other important features of survey administration data collection. By developing your own survey; you will examine the major decisions faced by a professional who wants to design administer high-quality surveys. The course will focus heavily on class discussion of readings; in-class group work a survey design project. For this reason; attendance active participation are important for successful learning in this course. I want to turn you into a Survey Snob. I know this sounds odd; but I want you to become a sophisticated critical consumer producer of surveys. To accomplish this; you will need to develop an understanding of the fundamental principles of survey research design. After this course; I hope that you look at surveys through a new set of eyes. You will be able to distinguish poorly-constructed surveys from well-constructed surveys. You will be able to design administer surveys that support the social; research; data collection needs of the organizations institutions to which you belong.', '6'])
(['94832', 'Business Intelligence & Data Mining SAS', "['Beibei Li']", 'With the proliferation of Web 2.0 making inroads into the enterprises and industries; the ability to understand; analyze and interpret businesses from Big Data has become increasingly more important today. This class aims to equip you with highly demanded business analytics skills in the current job market. The course will focus on extracting business intelligence by leveraging firms business data as well as online social media content for various applications; including (but not limited to) search engine marketing; social media analytics; crowd-sourcing management; market analysis and demand estimation; social network analysis; customer segmentation; customer relationship management (CRM); web mining and health care management. The class will be hands-on and the emphasis will be placed on the know-how aspect - how to extract and apply business intelligence to improve business decision making and marketing strategies. We will analyze real-world business data from Fortune 500 companies using various business intelligence tools; primarily SAS Enterprise Miner. Time permits; we will also introduce some advanced economic and predictive models in analyzing digital markets. Prior programming skill is not required. Throughout the class business insights from several market leaders such as Google; Microsoft; Amazon; Travelocity; Netflix; Uber; Yelp and Facebook will be revealed.', '6'])
(['94833', 'Decision Analysis and Multicriteria Decision Making', "['Jonathan Caulkins']", 'This course complements and extends both 95-760 Decision Making under Uncertainty and the two mini sequence in Management Science (90-722 90-760). Management Science I: Optimization) by addressing three additional topics in managerial decision making: - MCDM (Multi-Criteria Decision Making) - Decision Analysis - Decision processes MCDM is a collection of methods for trading-off different alternatives performance on multiple conflicting objectives; methods discussed include weighted sum scoring models; swing weights; TOPSIS; DEA; AHP; and rank-based methods. Decision Analysis is the prescriptive model for rationally maximizing subjective expected utility in the face of uncertainty; it is particularly powerful for dealing with sequential decisions; quantifying the value of information; assessing and incorporating subjective probabilities; and doing Bayesian updates of probabilities as new information becomes available. Decision process considerations go beyond the paradigm of a single well-defined decision maker and mathematical method. Potential topics we could cover include industrial analytics; auctions; composite indicators (US News World Report style ratings); balanced scorecards; dashboards of key performance indicators; group processes; and matching a decision method to the circumstances at hand.', '6'])
(['94834', 'Applied Econometrics I', "['Edson Severnini'; 'Akshaya Jha']", 'Econometrics has an important place in the data sciences. As your textbook authors say; the purpose of econometrics is to untangle cause and effect in human affairs. Econometrics is essential for advancing understanding in the social sciences; conducting public policy evaluation; and assessing the impact of business practice. Both Applied Econometrics I and Applied Econometrics II are hands on courses in which you will not only learn to read and interpret existing studies; but will also conduct econometric analyses of your own. The goal is to help you take your first few steps toward becoming a Metrics Master One of those steps is becoming competent and confident in the use of Stata to conduct empirical analyses. Pre-requisites: Applied Econometrics I: Students are presumed to have a solid grounding in basic statistics; at the level of 90-711 (Empirical Methods for Public Policy and Management); 90-786 (Intermediate Empirical Methods) or 95-796 (Statistics for IT Managers). We will make good use of the material covered in those courses.', '6'])
(['94836', 'Ethics & Policy of Data Analytics', '[]', 'We live in an increasingly data-intensive and algorithmic society; and so we must consider the ethical; societal; and personal impacts of these technologies. This course will explore ethical and policy aspects of data analytics; including issues of privacy; bias; trust; and more. We will consider both ethical questions about what we ought to do with data analytics; and also policy questions about what we are permitted or required to do by law and regulation (in both US and non-US contexts). This course will thus provide an important complement to more statistics/technology-centric courses that emphasize what we can do.', '6'])
(['94837', 'Leading with Equity & Inclusion: Personal & Interpersonal', '[]', 'September 19 9:30 am - 3:30 pm in person October 3 9:30 am - 3:30 pm in person *students will be required to meet virtually in small groups with instructor once between the in-person session Course Description: Many talented and otherwise successful leaders lack the skills; competencies; and experience to practically embed their deeply held values of diversity; equity; and inclusion (DEI) into their management practice. DEI work requires a different approach and process than most other ways we learn to work; manage; and lead. Oppression manifests at four levels: personal; interpersonal; organizational; and structural or systemic. To create a more equitable society; leaders must be prepared to address oppression at all four of these levels; often simultaneously. Part 1 of Leading with Equity Inclusion will focus on the first two levels; personal and interpersonal; as you develop your inclusive management vision. Beginning with foundational knowledge of the evolution and current trends of DEI in organizations; you will examine how your identity; experiences; and culture shape your management style and work preferences; and how you show up at work and in your interactions and relationships with others. You will engage in critical discussions around topics of power and privilege; white dominant culture traits; intercultural competency; microaggressions; and unconscious bias. You will develop your personal inclusive management vision based on deep self-reflection and analysis of your personal and professional values.', '3'])
(['94839', 'Leading with Equity & Inclusion: Organizational & Structural/Systemic', '[]', 'November 7 9:30 am - 3:30 pm in person November 21 9:30 am - 3:30 pm virtual *students will be required to attend (or view recording of) virtual guest presentation between the class sessions Course Description: Many talented and otherwise successful leaders lack the skills; competencies; and experience to practically embed their deeply held values of diversity; equity; and inclusion (DEI) into their management practice. DEI work requires a different approach and process than most other ways we learn to work; manage; and lead. Oppression manifests at four levels: personal; interpersonal; organizational; and structural or systemic. To create a more equitable society; leaders must be prepared to address oppression at all four of these levels; often simultaneously. Part 2 of Leading with Equity Inclusion will focus on the last two levels; organizational and structural/systemic; as you are introduced to tools; processes; and best practices for developing a culture of inclusion at all levels of your organization. Beginning with foundational knowledge of the evolution and current trends of DEI in nonprofits; you will practice evaluating an organizations current culture; policies; and practices with an equity lens. You will prepare to champion and/or lead organizational change to center equity and be an anti-racist organization.', '3'])
(['94842', 'Programming R for Analytics', "['Michael Simko'; 'Alexandra Chouldechova'; 'Zbigniew Zdziarski'; 'Constantine Cois'; 'Farhod Yuldashev'; 'Prahlad Menon-Gopalakrishna']", 'An introduction to R; a widely used statistical programming language. Students will learn to import; export and manipulate different data types; analyze datasets using common statistical methods; design; construct and interpret statistical models; produce a variety of different customized graphical outputs; create scripts and generate reproducible reports. There will be a focus on using this experience to apply these skills in public policy areas. Prerequisites: 91-801 Statistical Methods for Managers; or 95-796 Statistics for IT Managers A good knowledge of statistics is preferred; but this course is focused on anyone wanting to learn the basics of the R language and how to use the tools R offers to be able to do basic data analysis; statistical calculations; create graphical output and generate reproduceable reports using R Markdown.', '6'])
(['94843', 'Multi-Modal Communication and Research', "['Brett Crawford']", 'Centering work at the intersections of arts; management and technology; this course is designed in a studio model in which students gain an understanding of how technology is shaping arts and entertainment enterprises across the globe while simultaneously experimenting with how to share that knowledge digitally. Students learn the tools and techniques for conducting professional research. But they also learn how to share their research via emerging digital content pathways - standard online articles; infographics; podcasts and visual interactives. Research findings are intended for publication on the Arts Management and Technology research platform; curated by a student-led team to serve professionals working in the field. This class is designed to provide a breadth of skills that will serve emerging professionals in the fields of research; communication; or institutional development. With a focus on digital modes of communication; young professionals leave the course with effective skills to communicate ideas to peers; supervisors or customers. Current and future leaders need to understand how to evaluate or conduct research emerging opportunities in order to make effective decisions. Adopting a studio model; students will spend time prior to class meetings gaining an understanding of theories and approaches to research and digital communication. In class; students will work together to synthesize the theories and put them into practice; from creating an evidenced based infographic to scripting and recording a podcast episode. Each student will work on a semester long; independent; research project at the intersection of arts management and technology. A list of potential; but not prescribed research topics are provided at the beginning of the semester and all assignments scaffold from inception to final product.', '6'])
(['94845', 'Smart Cities: Growth and Intelligent Transportation Systems', "['Sean Qian'; 'Zhen Qian']", 'Cities all around the world are being built and re-invented as smart cities utilizing information systems and innovative applications of data analytics. One major smart cities component is transportation. The Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) industry is expected to grow at a rate of 9 per year and reach 45 Billion in annual investment by 2023 (Greenenergy24; 2017). This shifting dynamic provides great opportunity for improved transportation safety and efficiency but also poses challenging information systems and public policy challenges. Furthermore; there are new opportunities for professional-school graduates outside of engineering schools for employment in transportation planning and policy. This course is supported by CMUs Traffic21 Institute Mobility21 National University Transportation Center. Classes will feature guest lectures provided by Traffic21/Mobility21 faculty and industry and government ITS professionals.', '6'])
(['94851', 'Transforming Cities: Cities and Sustainability', '[]', 'COURSE WILL MEET FEB. 5; 6; 7 2021. Due to economic development and globalization; cities continue to grow with predictions that 70 of the worlds population will live in urban areas by the year 2050. This course; then; will view cities as hubs where patterns; connections; discussions; and the processes shape such issues as social justice; economic development; technology; migration; the environment among others. By examining cities as a lens; this sequence of weekend courses encourages students to examine cities as a system for discussing social processes being built and rebuilt. With an interdisciplinary focus; the course invites experts from the University of Pittsburgh; Carnegie Mellon; and relevant fields more broadly. This iteration of the course will explore such topics as: the role cities can have on climate change; low-emission growth and clean energy; the importance of access to resources; the need for sustainable transportation; the practices of sustainable consumption; among others.', '3'])
(['94852', 'Transforming Cities: Cities and Social Justice', '[]', 'Due to economic development and globalization; cities continue to grow with predictions that 70 of the worlds population will live in urban areas by the year 2050. This course; then; will view cities as hubs where patterns; connections; discussions; and the processes shape such issues as social justice; economic development; technology; migration; the environment among others. By examining cities as a lens; this sequence of weekend courses encourages students to examine cities as a system for discussing social processes being built and rebuilt. With an interdisciplinary focus; the course invites experts from the University of Pittsburgh; Carnegie Mellon; and relevant fields more broadly. This iteration of the course will explore such topics as: the rapid growth of cities and their impact on fair housing; gentrification; and poverty; the role of human rights cities as models; the role of migration on cities; the role of governance addressing inequality; the need to have access to health care; among others. Added Note: The course will occur on Friday; October 22nd; Saturday; October 23rd; and Sunday; October 24th. Engagement in the course should be synchronous; accommodations for those in significant time zone differences will be provided to allow enrollment and completion of all elements of the weekend.', '3'])
(['94854', 'Developing as a Leader', "['David Lassman']", 'This course introduces students to leadership via three learning frameworks: models; practice and reflection. Using guest lectures; readings and videos; and small group discussions; the faculty will work with the students to define leadership and provide applicable frameworks for their leadership practice. Students will be able to experiment and practice different skills and styles in a safe environment where they can receive useful feedback. To help students pursue their own personal path of leadership development; our focus is on formulating personal goals; models and activities that sustain this development over the course of their careers. Learning Objectives: Learn tools for effective reflection and self-awareness Determine your leadership values and your leadership plan of action Listen to; respect and heed the advice and ideas of others', '6'])
(['94855', 'Innovation Management in Practice', "['Jimmy Williams']", 'Innovation has been described as the intersection of invention and insight; leading to the creation of social and economic value. Companies increasingly rely on innovation to establish and drive their success. Public policy makers see innovation as a critical driver for economic development. This course is an opportunity to learn about innovation management from those in the front lines. How are innovation opportunities identified? What are the challenges to realizing these opportunities; and how can the challenges be addressed? What roles are played by processes; technologies and the business environment; as well as by individuals in organizations? This course will feature speakers who drive innovation in a variety of settings; paired with readings from the innovation literature that will help frame the presentations and discussion.', '6'])
(['94856', 'Managerial and Engineering Economics', '["Jason O\'Connor"]', 'This course will introduce students to the fundamentals of engineering and managerial economics. The course emphasizes the application of economic frameworks to understand how technology markets evolve and what strategies allow firms to capture value from innovation. The aim of the course is to develop a rigorous foundation in the relevant economic models that students can use to manage innovation in high-technology organizations. The course is oriented around developing answers to three key questions: (1) How should managers of technology firms evaluate potential strategies or projects when the outcome of innovation is uncertain? To address this question; the course introduces cost-benefit models for determining project value and how to use these models to make managerial decisions. (2) How do market characteristics shape the optimal pricing decisions of the firm? This part of the course provides economic models that translate the competitive dynamics of markets into the return-based measures required for optimal decision-making. (3) How do market characteristics shape a firms ability to capture value from innovation? The final part of the course extends the frameworks in the second module to model value capture when firms invest in the development of breakthrough innovations. We will cover a number of different game theoretical models of innovation competition; bargaining; and pricing of platform and information products.', '12'])
(['94859', 'International Crisis Negotiation Exercise', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'This introductory course (there are no prerequisite courses) is designed to: 1) increase your understanding of international conflicts and negotiation processes; and 2) improve your effectiveness as a team leader; team member and negotiator. Students will prepare for and participate in an immersive negotiation exercise led by the United States Army War College. All classwork and the actual exercise occur over the following dates: Saturday; April 11th (9:00am-4:00pm*); Saturday; April 18th (8:30am-7:00pm*); and Sunday; April 19th (8:30am-4:00pm*) - and one weekday - Tuesday; April 21st (12:00-1:20pm*). *Times are subject to change.', '3'])
(['94860', 'Regulation of Internet Edge Platforms', '[]', 'Social media; search and e-commerce platforms are under attack all over the world: antitrust lawsuits; complaints about fake news; partisan bias; and disinformation on social media; calls to remove liability protections for platforms that post user-provided content; to regulate content and online marketplaces. In this course we will examine competing economic and policy approaches to the treatment of these platforms. We will examine where these companies fit in the Internet ecosystem; how these firms make money (e.g. targeted advertising); traditional principles of antitrust and their application to multi-sided platforms; issues of Free Speech versus Disinformation on social networks; and how these firms differ from traditional media; and a comparison of proposals for structural versus behavioral regulation. Readings will be drawn from technical; economic; legal and policy sources. Students will be encouraged to contrast competing approaches to these issues via in-class debates and written assignments.', '6'])
(['94866', 'Design Thinking', "['Christopher Goranson'; 'Timothy Zak'; 'Stuart Austin']", 'Design thinking is a collaborative user centered process for the identification of problems and the definition of innovative solutions. Design thinking has been applied to the development of new products; the solution of social problems; the design of new business models and the improvement of existing processes. Design thinking is based in five premises which pervade the creative process: - User centered: Empathy for the people you are designing for and feedback from these users is fundamental to a good solution. - Experimentation: Communicate your vision by creating experiences; using illustrations; prototypes and stories meaningful to your users - Reframing the problem: Formulating the problem in different ways; one level above the current reality; one level down or from different points of view. - Collaboration: Problems and solutions are identified with the participation of all key stakeholders by s a cross-functional team that looks at many aspects of the solution. Objectives: By the end of the course the student should be able to: Decide the suitability of applying design thinking in a given context Explain the design thinking process and its most common tools Apply the design thinking process in the context of a service or software product definition', '6'])
(['94867', 'Decision Analytics for Business and Policy', "['Peter Zhang'; 'Alexandre Jacquillat']", 'This course introduces modeling frameworks and computational tools to address complex; ill-defined; large-scale decision-making problems that arise in policy and business. Through lectures and case studies; it covers advanced methods of decision-making under uncertainty in these major areas: (large-scale) deterministic optimization; stochastic/robust optimization; and sequential decision making. It will focus on modeling (how to formulate models to address policy or business problems); computation (how to solve large-scale problems); and applications in policy and business (how to integrate viewpoints of different stakeholders; how to select the scope of the model; etc.). Applications are drawn from a variety of real-world settings in transportation; energy; health; supply chain management; etc. Participants are expected to take active learning roles in the computational application of the materials presented in class using the python programming language and the Gurobi optimization solver. A term project simulates realistic and challenging issues where new solutions need to be developed; implemented and communicated. The prerequisites are an introductory course in Operations Research; such as Management Science I and II or Decision-Making under Uncertainty; and an intermediate Python course.', '12'])
(['94870', 'Telling Stories with Data', "['Christopher Goranson'; 'Devon Halley']", 'Data are everywhere. For policy makers; the ability to tell the right story using data can make the difference between a successful initiative and one that fails. Part art; part science; visualizing data is a process that is both well established in existing disciplines and experimental and rapidly changing in others. In this course well explore both ends of the spectrum as we deconstruct and reconstruct data visualizations; dig into our own stories informed by data in compelling ways to help our readers understand complex issues; and experiment with new ways to represent data about our work; our community; and even ourselves. This course will provide hands-on training and experimentation with a number of tools; and students will have some flexibility to concentrate on mediums that best match their desired outcomes for a final project deliverable (print; digital; interactive or immersive). By the end of this course; students will have developed a portfolio of work; skills in a number of different tools and applied techniques; and a more thorough understanding of how to communicate through presentation and data design. Students will be able to immediately apply what theyve learned to both other coursework as well as on-the-job needs.', '6'])
(['94880', 'R Shiny for Operations Management', "['Geoffrey Arnold']", 'This course will teach students to generate interactive websites including GIS maps and other data visualizations and reports using the R programming language. The course will focus on RStudios Shiny web application framework for creating interactive web applications; and the Leaflet library package for mobile- friendly interactive maps. This course builds directly from its prerequisite course; Programming R for Analytics course; and offers students a chance to build skills that will be marketable in both the public and the private sectors. Students will learn to load data from a variety of sources and formats for use in interactive web interfaces that can provide real-time information; including Rest APIs.', '6'])
(['94881', 'Managing Analytic Projects', "['David Steier']", 'With the growing demand for data science and AI skills; there are many options for students to learn fundamentals of data and analytics modeling. There are fewer opportunities to learn how to manage analytics projects; which often involve leading teams with diverse skills and interacting with stakeholders in a variety of roles. Using a decision-driven framework; this course offers students practical guidance and experience around the process of initiating; delivering; and evaluating analytics projects. It will draw on experience from a consulting perspective; talking about analytics with clients and delivering analytics-related engagements. The course will cover the following topics: - Starting the analytics conversation: Identifying needs; understanding constraints - Planning and executing analytics projects: Sizing; staffing; communication - Making choices around data; analytics; visualizations and infrastructure: Sourcing; techniques; technologies; integration; security; pipelines - Analytics in the enterprise: Communications; ethics; organizing talent; strategy', '6'])
(['94883', 'Applied Ethical Analysis', "['Rebekah Apple']", 'This course provides a framework to increase accountability through ethical decision-making. The goal of this course is to allow you to understand the complexity and consequences of decisions; the utility of ethics in personal and professional life; and the motivations of others (be they ethical or not). You will gain the ability to recognize and address underlying principles in a variety of contextual dilemmas. Students will learn to practically apply established theory and methodology to create and sustain trustworthiness. Case studies; small group discussions; scholarly readings; and videos will demonstrate the relevance and importance of applied ethics.', '6'])
(['94886', 'Advances in Robotic Process Automation', "['Larry Honig'; 'Lawrence Honig']", 'Todays new generation of sophisticated workforce robots act across business functions; integrate cloud and legacy applications; and are self-managing; scalable and fully dynamic. This course is an introduction into the fundamentals of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and how it is transforming the world by combining software robotics with the power of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). During the class we will dig into the technology; understand how advanced RPA delivers business value; identify processes ripe for this automation; and build an RPA business case. We will also discuss the talent implications of bringing bots to work and the impact on the organization and its workforce. Throughout the course we will be joined by business leaders who will share their experiences and leverage exercises designed to provide hands-on automation opportunities including use of a test environment. For the final project; students will have the opportunity to be an automation strategy consultant that assesses and develops a business case for a real-world automation candidate.', '6'])
(['94887', 'Applied Analytics: ML Pipeline', "['Jeremy Weiss']", 'Machine learning algorithms transform fields with new analytic capabilities; ways of visualizing data; and are key drivers in decision making. But when and how are they useful? Knowing when and how to apply appropriate machine learning techniques requires understanding of the machine learning pipeline; from data to machine learning algorithms to problem domain. This class seeks to teach students how to deal with messy data and provisional questions and turn them into actionable interpretations and insights. The course will cover discovery; planning; analysis; and interpretation. Discovery involves understanding the data at hand; determining what is and is not answerable; and question generation. Planning involves contrasting the application of the desired machine learning method on ideal clean data with the messy data at hand. Dealing with representation; missing data; and designing appropriate machine learning machinery are all involved in planning. Analysis involves applying the machine learning method; checking model performance and assumptions in a principled and responsible manner. Interpretation involves the transformation of algorthm outputs into meaningful and actionable characterizations of the results. Each part of the pipeline is interconnected and students will learn to anticipate and address limitations through understanding of the pipeline as a whole. Throughout the course we will focus on one vertical; health care; recognizing that the methods developed will generalize to others. We will contrast advanced machine learning methods against simpler methods used in health care analytics; and describe the advantages and limitations of each. This course will be a mixture of lectures and small group workshop activities culminating in a final project. There will be no final exam.', '12'])
(['94889', 'Machine Learning for Public Policy Lab', "['Kit Rodolfa'; 'Rayid Ghani']", 'This is a project-based course designed to provide students training and experience in solving real-world problems using machine learning; with a focus on problems from public policy and social good. Through lectures; discussions; readings; and project assignments; students will learn about and experience building end-to-end machine learning systems; starting from project definition and scoping; through modeling; to field validation and turning their analysis into action. Through the course; students will develop skills in problem formulation; working with messy data; communicating about machine learning with non-technical stakeholders; model interpret ability; understanding and mitigating algorithmic bias disparities; and evaluating the impact of deployed models. Students will be expected to know python; and have prior coursework in machine learning.', '12'])
(['94890', 'Race; Politics and Policies in the US', "['Silvia Borzutzky']", 'Race; Politics and Policies will address the politics of segregation and discrimination that have been present in the U.S since its independence. In this course; we will discuss the political foundations of racial segregation and the many policies that have consolidated discrimination and disparities. Because this is essentially a policy course; we are going to analyze disparities and discrimination in a variety of policy areas including education; health; housing; access to social services and employment. The course will not only analyze existing policies; but also attempt to provide solutions to these problems; including current proposals such as reparations. Pittsburgh will be used as one of several case studies of local disparities. Basic requirements are writing two policy memos and doing a group presentation.', '6'])
(['95702', 'Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management', "['Joseph Mertz'; 'Michael Mccarthy']", 'With the emergence of the Internet as a computing platform; distributed applications are being widely deployed by organizations. Understanding the principles/theory and the technologies underlying distributed computing and systems design is increasingly important. Examples of technologies supporting such deployment include JEE architecture and Web services. This course has three major objectives. First; it is designed to introduce students to the principles underlying distributed computing and the design of distributed systems. Second; it aims to provide students with the opportunity to exercise these principles in the context of real applications by having the students use technologies such as XML; SOAP; Web services; and JEE-based application servers. Finally; it seeks to endow students with the capacity to analyze; design; evaluate and recommend distributed computing solutions skills in response to business problems. Distributed Computing Principles - Distributed computing architectures: P2P; client server - Inter-process communication - Distributed objects and remote invocation - Naming and Name services - Time and Global State Management - Transactions and Concurrency control - Distributed Transactions Material on principles of distributed systemsare taught from books such as Tannenbaum and Steen or the Coulouris et al. book on Distributed Systems. Internet-enabled Distributed Computing Technologies - Application Server architectures: JEE - Extensions of the Java Distributed Object model and the DCOM component-based architectures - Web Services: WSDL; UDDI; SOAP; XML - http-based RPC combined with standards for interface definition and naming. - Discussion and application of select APIs from the API layer of the JEE architecture to illustrate distributed transactions; middleware access protocols (MQ Series API); and Messaging services (JMS).', '12'])
(['95703', 'Database Management', "['Jeremy Smith'; 'Janusz Szczypula']", 'Databases systems are central to most organizations information systems strategies. At any organizational level; users can expect to have frequent contact with database systems. Therefore; skill in using such systems - understanding their capabilities and limitations; knowing how to access data directly or through technical specialists; knowing how to effectively use the information such systems can provide; and skills in designing new systems and related applications is a distinct advantage and necessity today. The Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is one type of database systems that is most often used these days; and is the primary focus of this course. Further; to provide students with opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures; various homework assignments; SQL assignments; and a database implementation project will be given.', '12'])
(['95705', 'Telecommunications Management', "['Riaz Esmailzadeh'; 'Riaz Zadeh'; 'Sakir Yucel']", 'The purpose of this course is to provide an understanding of the key technical; managerial and policy issues in the effective development and use of broadband telecommunication by organizations. Discussion of technology; business and policy issues will be set in the context of services and contents. Topics covered will include basic concepts of telecommunication technology (data and voice); Internet and intranet technologies; issues related to the operational and strategic use of the technology; economics and policy aspects of telecommunication; and the changing structure of the telecommunications industry. A number of case studies will be included in the curriculum providing students the opportunity to apply the concepts to real world situations.', '12'])
(['95706', 'Object Oriented Analysis and Design', "['Neelam Dwivedi'; 'Constantine Cois']", 'Large-scale software development has been described as one of the most difficult of human undertakings. This course examines the reasons for the inherent complexity of software construction; and presents structured methods to deal effectively with it. The course will focus on the object-oriented approach for analysis and design. Students will gain an appreciation of the difference between writing programs and doing analysis and design. Problem formulation and decomposition (analysis) and solution building (design) will be covered. Students will work in small groups; each group having the responsibility for analysis; design and implementation of a software system. Case tools will be used in several stages of the development process. Knowledge of an Object-Oriented language such as Java or C++ is a pre-requisite for this course.', '6'])
(['95710', 'Economic Analysis', "['Alessandro Acquisti'; 'Karen Clay'; 'Tiong Lim']", 'This is a course in microeconomics and its implications for management and strategy - particularly (but not exclusively) in the context of information technology firms. Microeconomics; as discussed in this course; focuses on the models and methods by which managers can analyze their market and organizational environment to make optimal decisions. The key to such optimal decision-making is an understanding of the trade-offs in allocating scarce resources. The core models of microeconomics are fundamental to more applied areas of management such as strategy; marketing; production; and finance. The course will begin with an examination of the underlying structure and models of competitive markets; and the efficiency and welfare implications of those models. We will then examine economic models that describe firm output; pricing and entry/exit decisions. These models will then be applied to a variety of market contexts; including monopoly; oligopoly; and competition. As we go through this analysis; we will seek to understand the implications of the theory for information technology firms. We will also examine interesting dynamics between information; agents and economic outcomes in the context of game theory. Most of our discussions of the economic models will be accompanied by explorations of the ideas and examples presented in the Shapiro and Varian text.', '6'])
(['95712', 'Object Oriented Programming in JAVA', "['Neelam Dwivedi'; 'Martin Barrett'; 'Murlikrishna Viswanathan']", 'This course is an in-depth look at the popular programming language Java. It is not intended for first time programmers. After some preliminaries devoted to basic syntax and program structure; classes; composition; inheritance and polymorphism are examined. The Java collection classes are studied in some detail; as is the rather complex set of I/O classes. Additional topics include exception handling; building GUIs with JavaFX; and multi-threading. Throughout the second half of the course; a series of homework problems develops a non-toy application; illustrating by example how larger object-oriented programs are organized.', '12'])
(['95717', 'Writing for Information Systems Management', "['Haylee Massaro'; 'Rebekah Fitzsimmons'; 'Stefan Labash'; 'Stacy Rosenberg']", 'Communication in written form is an essential element of management. Writing for business-focused; industry-specific contexts differs from academic writing. Accordingly; this course focuses on teaching transferable; career-enhancing writing skills: developing essential and persuasive content; applying logic; organizing information; targeting diverse audiences with varying levels of expertise and roles; addressing feasibility; ensuring clarity; controlling tone; maintaining format norms and designing documents for readability. The course challenges students to meet readers needs by conveying critical thinking via anticipating the perspectives of stakeholders in professional situations. Coursework emphasizes precise; concise phrasing in actionable communications. Digital tips and strategies for collaborative writing will be discussed. Writing resources and sample documents will be provided.', '6'])
(['95718', 'Professional Speaking', "['Stefan Labash'; 'Haylee Massaro'; 'Rebekah Fitzsimmons'; 'Rebekah Apple']", 'Enrollment: limited to 10 students per section Students must attend the first meeting if they intend to enroll in the class. Whether we like it or not; all the skill; talent; and creativity in the world isnt enough in the workplace. The ability to actively communicate ideas quickly; credibly; and memorably is a key soft skill that is a requirement for senior workers; and a prerequisite for advancement in almost every industry. This course gives students who arent natural-born presenters (which is about 99 of the population) some key skills; techniques; tricks; and insights into the essence of verbal communication in the enterprise; and will help you give your ideas the noticeability and power they need in todays marketplace. Whether youre looking for a job; a raise; a way to have your voice heard more convincingly and effectively in meetings; or funding for a big idea; your ability to effectively present yourself and your ideas is a critical and often overlooked skill.', '6'])
(['95719', 'Accounting and Finance Foundations', "['Lynne Pastor']", 'The focus of this course is on the basics of reading and interpreting financial statements in for-profit companies and financial evaluation of projects. These are critical skills for any manager. Owners (shareholders) expect managers to operate their companies in a way that produces profit. Managers must know how their decisions affect the companys profits. This course provides the background students will need to be successful in their careers. This course endeavors to give students the skills to be more effective managers. Upon completion of this course; the student will be able to: 1. Locate financial information to analyze companies 2. Classify accounts in the income statement; balance sheet and cash flow. 3. Analyze a companys financial health using ratio analysis. 4. Calculate and interpret Discount Rate 5. Calculate; interpret and apply Capital Budgeting techniques in determining the financial viability of a projects 6. Use time value of money techniques to make decisions', '6'])
(['95722', 'Digital Transformation', "['Michael Smith'; 'Ari Lightman'; 'Riaz Esmailzadeh'; 'James Riel'; 'Riaz Zadeh']", 'This course serves as the capstone course for the MISM program. As a capstone; the goal is to integrate technological and managerial aspects of information technology. Information and communication technologies play multiple roles within businesses; organizations; industries; and societies: - From a technological perspective; they define the information and communication infrastructure of the entity and they enable new ways to digitize processes. - From a managerial perspective; they facilitate new coordination and communication processes within and across entities; enable new organizational forms; change the information environment underlying the business; and permit new incentive and monitoring structures.', '6'])
(['95723', 'Managing Disruptive Technologies', "['Pedro Ferreira'; 'Ananya Sen']", 'We live in a rapidly changing world dominated by a myriad of technology-enabled disruptions. Consequently; there is a strong need for individuals that understand the complex ways in which these innovations affect marketplaces over time. In line with this need; this course looks at how technology-based products diffuse across markets. We depart from the fundamental ideas of monopoly and competitive pricing and study markets in which consumers interact across social networks and firms offer products to several markets simultaneously. The former enables direct network effects; while the latter enables indirect network effects. Lectures cover the fundamental concepts of economics and management applied to technology-enabled markets; including diffusion and critical mass; network effects; multi-sided platforms; pricing strategies; winner-takes-all markets; versioning; bundling; and envelopment attacks. We study these concepts in theory and lively with in-class discussions; competitive games; and simulations. We analyze several markets to complement the theories and models discussed in class; such as content distribution networks; social networking; the sharing economy; and online marketplaces for both digital and physical products. Students learn how to manage disruptive technologies and are exposed to frameworks and tools to characterize their dynamics over time.', '6'])
(['95729', 'E-Commerce Tech; Machine Learning; Analytics; & Bots', "['Andrew Wright']", 'What will come next in e-commerce? What stable foundations will continue to matter? In E-Commerce Tech; you will learn about software engineering design principles; and patterns for leveraging technology through the lens of e-commerce. We will explore how Artificial Intelligence (AI); Machine Learning (ML); and Conversational User Interfaces (CUI) are used at the intersection of technology; and microeconomics. To explore these topics; you will apply what you are learning; choosing from an array of team and solo projects that cover third-party integration; user experience (UX); servers and APIs; data querying and analytics; machine learning; conversational bots; and user engagement. In order to participate in this course; you need a laptop; and you must bring your laptop to each class/lab.', '6'])
(['95730', 'E-Business Technology and Management', "['James Riel']", 'The growth of the Internet continues to have a tremendous influence many aspects of human life. One area this impact is most widely felt is commerce; where Internet has not only transformed existing market structures but also given rise to new markets. Some of these effects include emergence of Internet and mobile commerce; reorganization of supply chains; peer-to-peer markets and social commerce. This course focuses on building a set of strategic and analytical tools that will give students a systematic approach to analyzing and understanding digital markets and how they interact with physical channels. The course will develop a core framework that focuses on customer behavior; firm and channel competition; and the effect of technology on these market forces.', '12'])
(['95733', 'Internet of Things', "['Michael Mccarthy']", 'Prerequisites: The ability to program is a prerequisite. Course Description: Traditional products are becoming smart products and smart products are becoming connected. From smart homes to smart cities; this trend is likely to have a profound impact on our future. This course takes the view that the internet of things is best viewed as an extension of the World Wide Web. So; we will spend some time studying how the Web was designed and how its principles can be used to design the internet of things. This course combines weekly readings from journal articles with hands-on exercises and programming. The student will work with modern IOT technologies; standards; and platforms. We will connect sensors and actuators to the cloud but will do so in a way that is based on sound architectural principles.', '6'])
(['95734', 'Managing Digital Business', "['James Riel']", 'A phenomenon of the information age showcases transformations of market interactions and economic decision making. Information technology managers; directors; and CIO/CTOs; once looked upon as the enablers of integrating and maintaining business technologies; are increasingly seen as the driving force behind creating and sustaining competitive advantage through information technology innovation. To succeed in this environment; the IT leader must have a grounded understanding of the technology in use; the potential development for new technology; and the ability to strategize and understand the impacts of incorporating technology in the business or industry they serve. This class will focus on two main areas to help IT leaders succeed: managing the business side of the entity including its people and processes; and managing the technical roles; innovations and implications for the digital business. From a business context; the course will focus on digital business models including eCommerce marketplaces; requirements elicitation for understanding and establishing the needs of internal and external stakeholders; understanding the roles of fulfillment in the current business environment; understanding the difference between SCM and ERP systems to determine advantages and disadvantages of each; and understanding the workings of B2B and P2P markets. From a technical context; this course will focus on current and emerging immersive technologies such as IoT; ePayment; Blockchain; and Cloud Quantum Computing. Additionally; this course will examine IT-related changes in the current market space through the growth of Internet and mobile commerce; social networking effects on markets; Web 2.0 including recommender systems and user-generated/created content (UGC/UCC); and understanding the differences and nuances of digital products and services.', '12'])
(['95736', 'Advanced Relational Database Management', "['Randy Trzeciak'; 'Randall Trzeciak']", 'This course will review and identify the advanced technology requirements of relational database management systems. It is expected that students have a strong foundation of RDBMs knowledge; skills; and abilities; including relational algebra; the relational model; normalization; and structure query language. This course will have a technology component and an advanced topics component. Within the technology component; the student will learn and use several products: Oracle Data Modeler for database modeling; PL/SQL for creating program units that use SQL; and Oracle Enterprise Manager and/or Tool for Oracle Application Developers (TOAD) for managing and Oracle RDBMS and program units. Within the advanced topics component; we will use some of our class sessions to review and discuss readings in topics like RDBMS -vs- NoSQL databases; database security; database administration; distributed databases; object-oriented databases; data mining and warehousing; grid computing; introduction to New SQL databases; OLTP; and database uses for the web.', '6'])
(['95743', 'Cybersecurity Policy and Governance II', "['Summer Fowler']", 'Across the board; IT managers in government and industry are concerned with regulatory compliance. This course is designed to introduce students to key Information Security industry and government policies; regulations and standards. The course is structured to familiarize students with base standards; like NIST; and more specific regulatory requirements; and to help students understand how those requirements are met; using frameworks; controls and training. The goal of this course is provide students with an understanding of how to develop an organizations information security policy and procedures to comply with government and industry regulations. This course is an elective for graduate students seeking to work or manage an information security and privacy department.', '6'])
(['95744', 'Cybersecurity Policy and Governance I', "['Summer Fowler'; 'Matthew Butkovic']", 'The ability to secure information within a modern enterprise is a growing challenge. Threats to information security are global; persistent; and increasingly sophisticated. Long gone are the days when managers could hope to secure the enterprise through ad hoc means. Effective information security at the enterprise level requires participation; planning; and practice. Fortunately; the information security community has developed a variety of resources; methods; and best practices to help modern enterprises address the challenge. However; employing these tools demands a high degree of commitment; understanding; and skillattributes that must be sustained through constant awareness and training. An essential part of the information security plan is cyber security policy this includes the written plans for how the enterprise IT assets will be protected. This course provides students with information on the origin of cyber security policy; governance structures for policy creation; selection and implementation of policy; and audit and control functions to ensure compliance and efficacy. Students will be exposed to the national and international policy and legal considerations related to cybersecurity and cyberspace such as privacy; intellectual property; cybercrime; homeland security (i.e.; critical infrastructure protection) and cyberwarfare; and the organizations involved in the formulation of such policies. Broader technology issues also are discussed to demonstrate the interdisciplinary influences and concerns that must be addressed in developing or implementing effective national cybersecurity laws and policies.', '6'])
(['95746', 'Cloud Security', '[]', 'In the age of disruption; digitally transformed products and services have enabled more significant innovation; faster go-to-market; and reduced capital expenditure. Behind a majority of these technological advancements is the cloud. As a 260 billion dollar industry; with growth expected to rise 14 by 2025; organizations are adopting the public cloud at increasing rates. This increased adoption of cloud computing has adversely affected security practices that are not fully transferable from on-premise security programs. This course will provide a foundational understanding of what is required to secure a cloud ecosystem; regardless of the vendor. The concepts and principles that will be discussed will help bridge the gaps between traditional and cloud architectures while accounting for the shifting thought patterns involving enterprise risk management. Students that successfully complete this course will be able to enter into any organization that is utilizing the cloud and immediately bring value to the infrastructure and security teams.', '6'])
(['95747', 'Security Data Analytics', '[]', 'Modern information security is full of big data problems. Discovering patterns and trends in cybersecurity incident data; detecting anomalous network or host traffic; predicting the likelihood of an email message containing malicious attachments or links - these are all examples of combining data sources and analytic techniques to preserve the confidentiality; integrity; and availability of information and information systems. In this course; we will cover analytic techniques such as clustering; classification; and anomaly detection; in the context of their applicability to the information security domain. We will explore the data sources that can be mined for security information. We will use hands-on labs to provide practical experience applying analytic techniques to these data sources. Finally; we will present strategies that can be used ensure the outputs of information security analytics are accurate; understandable and actionable by security practitioners and business decision makers alike.', '6'])
(['95748', 'Software and Security', "['Hasan Yasar']", 'This course exposes students with limited exposure to programming and software engineering development foundational concepts to enable further understanding of the challenges of insecure and vulnerable software. Students are exposed to basic programming constructs (such as variables; control structures; data structures; programming syntax) ; secure software development process and implementation details as well as the specific principles of enterprise-wide secure system development practices. The course also surveys the types of threats and vulnerabilities inherent in software and the origins of these deficiencies. A brief overview of secure coding concepts and techniques are provided to students to provide exposure to how software can be made more secure and resilient and how security can be part of overall software development process.', '6'])
(['95749', 'Cryptography', "['Joseph Mayes']", 'This course builds on basic knowledge of cryptography (provided in 95-752) to provide students with working knowledge of cryptographic tools and methods; emphasizing practical employment of cryptography. Topics in this course include: * the techniques used to design cryptographic mechanisms (block ciphers; stream ciphers; hash algorithms; digital certificates; and others) * how these mechanisms have been incorporated into modern security technologies * when/how to apply these methods to incorporate security into cyber activities', '6'])
(['95752', 'Introduction to Information Security Management', "['Randy Trzeciak'; 'Randall Trzeciak']", 'This course is intended to give students an introduction to a variety of information and cyber security topics. As a survey course; it will cover foundational technical concepts as well as managerial and policy topics. Coverage includes foundations of information security; introductory cryptography; program; data; and operating system security; security of user-web interaction; safeguarding the Internet of Things; cyberwarfare; securing virtual; cloud; and mobile environments; network concepts and network security; incident management and IT auditing processes; security risk management; legal and ethical issues of security and privacy. Students are exposed to common sources of vulnerability information and how to incorporate this information into information security management processes. The purpose of the course lectures; assignments; readings; and examinations are to ensure students have sufficient technical awareness and managerial competence that will enable them to pursue advanced study in information security policy and management. There is no prerequisite for this course; however successful students will have fundamental knowledge of information and computer systems; and a general awareness of security issues in these systems.', '12'])
(['95755', 'Information Security Risk Management I: Information S RISK MANAGEMENT I', "['Brett Tucker'; 'James Stevens'; 'Adam Cummings']", 'This course examines risk management practices and principles to improve information security. The course provides education on information security risk identification; evaluation; and related response decisions given resource constraints. Students will learn foundational concepts in risk management and economic valuation and will be introduced to standard risk management approaches for identifying; analyzing; responding; and monitoring risks. Both qualitative and quantitative approaches will be examined.', '6'])
(['95757', 'Information Security Policy & Management', "['Rahul Telang'; 'Brett Tucker']", 'The goal of this course is to provide an overview of security marketplace an understanding of decision making when multiple parties are involved and the role of policy making in the context of information security. Policy is treated broadly and need not be necessarily government laws and regulations. Policy can be intra-organization. For example it is an organization policy to disconnect an unpatched computer from its network. We will discuss the role of market and competition on security provision and then some of the key causes of market failure namely externalities. We will then analyze how various policy tools can be applied to mitigate market failure. We will also discuss some key laws and regulation on product liability and security standards. The course also aims to provide an overview of security industry (that is key trends technologies and various strategies by vendors and users) as well. By the end of the course the students are expected to know key managerial and policy issues surrounding information security provision and when and how policy intervention is needed. There is no text book and all the reading material is provided on the first day of class. Some understanding of economics is expected. Students are expected to have read the relevant reading material before class and come prepared for discussion. All reading material can be downloaded from blackboard. Case material will be distributed in class. *This course uses a course packet or case studies. Students will be charged a fee for the course materials. The fee for these materials will be charged to the students account. ...Read More', '6'])
(['95758', 'Network and Internet Security', "['Joseph Mayes']", 'This course emphasizes practical employment of network security. Topics in this course will provide: - A working knowledge of the need to design networks to - properly support an organization; - properly accommodate networking protocols; and - properly secure an organizations cyber assets through its network infrastructure', '12'])
(['95759', 'Malicious Code Analysis', "['Jason Batchelor']", 'The ability to develop well instrumented networks; policies; and processes are directly correlated to ones understanding of malicious code; such that it has become a requisite for any decision maker operating within a modern enterprise. Just as necessary is the ability to effectively consume and produce actionable intelligence on malicious code. This course aims to provide students with a deeper understanding of the various tactics; techniques; and procedures found when analyzing malware. Students will also develop an appreciation for the technical challenges presented by malware and how to employ strategic detections and mitigations to meet todays threat.', '6'])
(['95760', 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty', "['David Choi'; 'Riaz Esmailzadeh'; 'Hai Wang'; 'Jonathan Caulkins'; 'Alexandre Jacquillat'; 'Riaz Zadeh']", 'This course provides an introduction to modeling and computational methods used by policy-makers; managers and analysts to support decision-making. The first half of the course focuses on deterministic optimization; and covers linear programming; network optimization and integer programming. The second half of this course introduces risk and uncertainty; and includes methods to characterize uncertainty and methods to optimize decisions under uncertainty. Examples are drawn from a variety of domains where these decision-making methods can provide value for business and policy; such as transportation; energy; health care; manufacturing; supply chain management; etc. The readings; lectures; homework assignments and exams will help you develop modeling skills; computational skills; and analytical skills. Modeling skills involve translating a problem into a well-defined mathematical framework; using little more than pen and paper. Computational skills involve solving your model on a computer program. In this course; all applications will be done in Excel. Analytical skills involve critically interpreting a model and translating results into insights for decision-making. All three are important', '6'])
(['95771', 'Data Structures and Algorithms', "['Michael Mccarthy'; 'Constantine Cois']", '95-771 is a one-semester; 12-unit course which covers the fundamental data structures and algorithms for information processing. The course uses the Java programming language to illustrate the concepts covered; students are expected to code their assignments in Java. Students enrolled in the course must have a prior background in programming (course work or practical experience). Students with an adequate grasp of programming should have little difficulty learning the Java constructs required to do their assignments. It should be noted that this is not a Java programming course. With the exception of some initial background information; the course does not focus on the Java language itself; and students who have not studied Java are responsible for acquiring any additional required skills outside of class. Students without adequate programming preparation should consider taking an additional programming course as a pre-requisite or co-requisite to this course. A major part of the course focuses on the design and analysis of data structures and their algorithms. Therefore; we will not be using the built-in Java classes that provide immediate access to such data structures.', '12'])
(['95775', 'IT Business Leadership', "['Ryan Smalley']", 'Can leadership be taught within the classroom? Can one lead without speaking? What are the differences; if any; between leadership and management? These questions and others are addressed using an eclectic mix of in-class exercises; guest lecturer presentations; and personal story-sharing. We will examine the concepts of initiative; integrity; power; control; and authority. In todays business world; the ability to work within - and lead - groups of all sizes becomes a prime requisite for success at the managerial and executive level. Business and technical acumen is the entry fee to professional success; the ability to lead is distinguishing. This is an open discussion course wherein students are required to share their own stories as they listen to those of their peers. Numerous studies have identified only one trait shared by all successful leaders: failure. By sharing our failures; and being exposed to the challenges our peers and guest lecturers have faced; we learn about leadership; small group social dynamics; and ourselves.', '6'])
(['95794', 'Tech Startup: Market Discovery', "['Mark Desantis']", 'The first three years of a technology start-up are the most critical; when the companys DNA or trajectory is set. Too few entrepreneurs appreciate this fact and; as a result; many start without the essential skills talents and capabilities needed to set the company on a successful path. Some of these entrepreneurial skills can only be learned through starting and growing a business while others can be learned. This course attempts to bridge the challenging gap between learning and doing entrepreneurship. We introduce you to an essential skill of market discovery or learning to create; develop and evaluate your concept of your business. Is my idea a real innovation? Is it also a business or a product or neither? How do I know how big the market is for my product? What are the technology market and competitive risks in my idea and how do I assess them? Can I compete? Can I sell it? How? When? Where? Students will have the opportunity to apply their newfound practical skills gathered in part from lectures from experienced entrepreneurs and investors to case studies role-playing and solving actual problems of local tech businesses. The best way to learn entrepreneurship is by doing; which is why this course will use true-to-life scenarios as the anchor for the course. The class will be divided into 4 teams will focus on a company that is either (1) a student idea for new start-up; (2) an existing start-up (ideally local) or (3) a hypothetical start-up proposed/conceived by the students; the professor or both.', '6'])
(['95796', 'Statistics for IT Managers', "['Daniel Nagin'; 'Janusz Szczypula'; 'Benjamin Zamzow'; 'James Gaetjens']", 'This introductory course in data analysis and statistical inference requires no background in statistics. Its objective is to provide individuals who aspire to enter management or policy analysis positions with the basic statistical tools for analyzing and interpreting data. The course is divided into three distinct modules: descriptive statistics; statistical inference; and regression analysis. The emphasis of the classes on descriptive statistics is the calculation and interpretation of summary statistical measures for describing raw data. The sessions on statistical inference are designed to provide you with the background for executing and interpreting hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. The final component of the course focuses on regression analysis; a widely used statistical methodology. Throughout the course you will regularly analyze data relevant to management and policy analysis using the Excel statistical software package.', '6'])
(['95798', 'Tech Startup: Building Your Company', "['Mark Desantis']", 'The first three years of a technology start-up are the most critical; when the companys DNA or trajectory is set. Too few entrepreneurs appreciate this fact and; as a result; many start without the essential skills talents and capabilities needed to set the company on a successful path. Some of these entrepreneurial skills can only be learned through starting and growing a business while others can be learned. This course attempts to bridge the challenging gap between learning and doing entrepreneurship. We introduce you to an essential skill of market discovery or learning to create; develop and evaluate your concept of your business. Is my idea a real innovation? Is it also a business or a product or neither? How do I know how big the market is for my product? What are the technology market and competitive risks in my idea and how do I assess them? Can I compete? Can I sell it? How? When? Where? Students will have the opportunity to apply their newfound practical skills gathered in part from lectures from experienced entrepreneurs and investors to case studies role-playing and solving actual problems of local tech businesses. The best way to learn entrepreneurship is by doing; which is why this course will use true-to-life scenarios as the anchor for the course. The class will be divided into 4 teams will focus on a company that is either (1) a student idea for new start-up; (2) an existing start-up (ideally local) or (3) a hypothetical start-up proposed/conceived by the students; the professor or both.', '6'])
(['95799', 'Linux and Open Source', "['Dennis Moul']", 'This course covers the Linux operating system; its related applications; and the Open Source Software (OSS) model. Emphasis is on how Linux is different from other systems. Note example syllabus may be from online or on-campus Mini. Topics and general structure are the same; quiz and participation grading vary between online or on-campus.', '6'])
(['95807', 'Object-Oriented Programming for Managers', "['Neelam Dwivedi']", 'The course provides an overview of computer programming concepts and object-oriented thinking using the Java programming language. Students will be introduced to general programming concepts such as loops and recursions as well as the specific object-oriented themes of methods; classes; and inheritance. The goal is for the student to cultivate an appreciation and understanding of the impact of these concepts and themes on the management of large-scale software development projects.', '12'])
(['95808', 'IT Project Management', "['Brett Tucker'; 'Samuel Perl'; 'Summer Fowler']", 'From the smallest to the largest organization; the electronic storage and flow of information is critical to the successful achievement of goals; objectives and the provision of products and services. To manage that delivery process; we now find the construct mechanism for the delivery of those products and services to be the Project rather than a series of non-integrated tasks. The increased dependence upon projects necessitates the need for both improved project management and oversight. The purpose of this course is to assist professionals in understanding the components of complex projects; manage those project components; and to form and lead a project team. Project Management tools and techniques will be introduced; discussed; and applied.', '6'])
(['95810', 'Blockchain Fundamentals', "['Eliezer Kanal'; 'Riaz Zadeh']", 'This class will be a deep-dive into blockchain technology. We will discuss the fundamental cryptographic under-pinnings of the technology as well as different consensus mechanisms currently available. Well discuss both single-purpose blockchains such as Bitcoin as well as general-purpose implementations. Well discuss govern-ance of blockchain technology and related challenges; as well as legal challenges and concerns. This course will also provide an overview of blockchain programming; highlighting both existing challenges and specific nu-ances in blockchain programming. Students should leave the class with a better understanding of what block-chain technology is; what types of problems are best suited for blockchain-based solutions; as well as a more thorough understanding of the impact that blockchain technology is having across the board.', '6'])
(['95812', 'Introduction to the ITIL Framework', "['Ryan Smalley']", 'The IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) framework is a systematic and proven model to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of IT service provision. ITIL covers all phases of the service lifecycle from strategy generation to continuous improvement. This course covers all five service lifecycle stages and their attendant processes; and prepares students to take the ITIL Foundations certification exam. Actual ITIL implementation techniques and methods - and real world successes and failures - are reviewed. In the dynamic and complex environment of IT operations; ITIL has proven to be one of the singular mainstays of best practice and has been declared as the ISO/IEC 20000 standard for IT process frameworks.', '6'])
(['95813', 'Intermediate Database Management', "['Jeremy Smith']", 'The ability to structure; manage; and analyze data is critical to any organization. Databases; being the core of every information system; are essential in supporting this ability. Therefore; knowing how to effectively use the information and learning new skills in designing database systems is an advantage and necessity today. In addition; with the accessibility and availability of data from multiple sources and in disparate formats; it is also important to become familiar with methods for integrating those external data sources with internal enterprise data. This accelerated 6-unit course will address the theory and application of relational database technology. The course covers advanced data modeling (including entity relationships modeling and database normalization) as well as the structured query language (selected topics). Data integrity as well as utilizing metadata will also be addressed. In addition; the course will cover tools; technologies and methods to aid in working with heterogeneous and external data sets. To provide students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures; readings and various assignments.', '6'])
(['95818', 'Privacy; Policy; Law And Technology', "['Lujo Bauer'; 'Ljudevit Bauer']", 'This course focuses on policy issues related to privacy from the perspectives of governments; organizations; and individuals. We will begin with a historical and philosophical study of privacy and then explore recent public policy issues. We will examine the privacy protections provided by laws and regulations; as well as the way technology can be used to protect privacy. We will emphasize technology-related privacy concerns and mitigation; for example: social networks; smartphones; behavioral advertising (and tools to prevent targeted advertising and tracking); anonymous communication systems; big data; and drones. This course is part of a three-course series of privacy courses offered as part of the MSIT-Privacy Engineering masters program. These courses may be taken in any order or simultaneously. Foundations of Privacy (offered in the Fall semester) offers more indepth coverage of technologies and algorithms used to reason about and protect privacy. Engineering Privacy in Software (offered in the Spring semester) focuses on the methods and tools needed to design systems for privacy.', '12'])
(['95819', 'A/B Testing; Design and Analysis', "['Pedro Ferreira']", 'This course looks at how A/B testing helps measure causal effects across different industries and fields of public policy studies. We aim at answering questions such as: how does the demand for a product change when the price does or the ratings do? how can we anticipate how sales and profits change if the firm changes its business strategy? how can we measure whether introducing technology in schools; universities and/or classrooms affects the performance of students? Many companies and Governmental agencies ask and try to answer questions of this type every day. Moreover; they are now also actively seeking tools that can take advantage of big datasets to answer these questions as well as skillful individuals that know how to use them confidently. This course introduces fundamental concepts to correctly ask this type of question. We study frameworks to measure causal effects and we discuss their pros and cons. Every tool is discussed in the context of a specific example that students work on using real world datasets. Significant effort is placed on understanding how to design randomized experiments (aka A/B tests) to measure causal effects. We also discuss the most common challenges that arise when trying to design such experiments in the wild. The concepts and tools discussed in this course are general in nature and can be applied in different settings. The examples discussed in class will be mostly drawn from our own work at the Heinz College on the media industry and education policy. Lectures are 3 hours long. In the first half of each lecture we go over concepts related to A/B testing and what to do when A/B tests are unavailable. The discussion is based on the ideas and intuition behind these concepts. In the second half of each lecture we go over specific examples -- we study several real-world datasets and the code used to analyze them properly.', '6'])
(['95824', 'Policies of Wireless Systems', "['Jon Peha']", 'This course will address public policy issues related to wireless systems. It investigates policies related to a wide variety of emerging wireless systems and technologies; including current and next-generation cellular systems; wifi and white space devices; emerging methods of accessing spectrum; communications systems for emergency responders (firefighters; police; emergency medical services); current and next-generation television; and satellite communications. This can include the government role in facilitating the creation of infrastructure; in advancing competition among broadcasters and communications service providers; in using scarce spectrum efficiently; in promoting public safety and homeland security; and in protecting privacy and security. Because these are inherently interdisciplinary issues; the course will include detailed discussions of technology; economics; and law; with no prerequisites in any of these areas. This course is cross-listed as 18-650; 19-403; 19-713; and 95-824. Senior or graduate standing required.', '12'])
(['95828', 'Machine Learning for Problem Solving: Machine Learning for Problem Solving', "['Shubhranshu Shekhar'; 'Leman Akoglu']", 'The main premise of the course is to equip students with the intuitive understanding of machine learning concepts grounded in real-world applications. The course is designed to deliver the practical knowledge and experience necessary for recognizing and formulating machine learning problems in the real world; as well as of the best practices and tools for effectively applying machine learning in practice. The emphasis will be on learning and practicing the machine learning process; involving the cycle of feature design; modeling; and evaluation. Visit the Heinz College website for a more detailed description of the course. Students are expected to have the following background: - Basic knowledge of probability - Basic knowledge of linear algebra - Working knowledge of basic computing principles - Basic programming skills at a level sufficient to write a reasonably non-trivial computer program in Python', '12'])
(['95851', 'Making Products Count: Data Science for Product Managers', "['David Steier']", 'Product managers engage in a variety of complex activities critical to product success including - Gathering product requirements - Prioritizing features - Forecasting customer demand - Customer segmentation - Pricing - Allocating marketing spend - Identifying buying patterns - Analyzing and responding to customer feedback Historically decisions in these areas have often relied on intuition and guesswork; leading to misjudgment of the market and other key factors; and ultimately; product failures. Developments in data science; combining the increasing availability of data from internal and external sources with new algorithms that exploit that data at scale; offer new possibilities for putting product management decisions on a more quantitative and rigorous footing. Students in this course will be introduced to a variety of data science techniques applicable to activities to which product managers typically contribute. These techniques include preference modeling; time series forecasting; regression; clustering; classification; A/B testing; and analytics for unstructured data; including clickstreams; text; speech; and images. This course is for students who are looking for an introduction to applying data science to product management. Backgrounds in basic statistics; and some programming experience are required. Hands-on exercises in Python will illustrate the concepts; but please note this is not a Python class; students who are unfamiliar with Python will be given access to online tutorials to build up their Python skills. In-class exercises and weekly assignments will mainly focus on data science techniques and their application to decision making at various stages of the product life cycle. In the final project; students will select from a variety of data sets to address a product management issue in more depth; from framing the problem through modeling to communicating results.', '6'])
(['95855', 'Network Traffic Analysis', '["Kyle O\'Meara"]', 'This is a hands-on course that will survey network situational awareness techniques. The concept of network situational awareness is to develop a cogent set of observed network characteristics that will inform decision makers as to the wise course to take in defending the network (or more colloquially Know your network. Know the Internet. Know how they work together). The course will involve network investigation to include packet capture analysis and network flow analysis. Micro: - What is the breadth of my network? - What assets are important to my mission? - How do I perform efficient network analysis? What does the bad look like? Macro: - What are the geo-political effects of various movements across the world? - How do I provide an assessment of a global problem to decision makers? - What are the downstream affects others face because of me? Business Impacts: - What will this security implementation have on my business? - What do I do if my network is being used for malicious activity? - Can I take advantage of new technologies?', '8'])
(['95865', 'Unstructured Data Analytics', "['George Chen'; 'Kyle Johnson']", 'Companies; governments; and other organizations now collect massive amounts of data such as text; images; audio; and video. How do we turn this heterogeneous mess of data into actionable insights? A common problem is that we often do not know what structure underlies the data ahead of time; hence the data often being referred to as unstructured. This course takes a practical approach to unstructured data analysis via a two-step approach. We first examine how to identify possible structure present in the data via visualization and other exploratory methods. Once we have clues for what structure is present in the data; we turn toward exploiting this structure to make predictions. Many examples are given for how these methods help solve real problems faced by organizations. Along the way; we encounter many of the most popular methods in analyzing unstructured data; from modern classics in manifold learning; clustering; and topic modeling to some of the latest developments in deep neural networks for analyzing text; images; and time series. We will be coding lots of Python and working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) for cloud computing (including using GPUs). Note that students cannot receive credit for both 95-865 (Unstructured Data Analytics) and 94-775 (Unstructured Data Analytics for Policy). More information is available at the course webpage: http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/georgech/95-865/', '6'])
(['95866', 'Advanced Business Analytics', "['Rahul Telang'; 'Ronald Stone'; 'Beibei Li']", 'Growth in Web 2.0 coincides with the growth in firms ability to collect large customer data. Firms know micro level data about customer transactions and have an ability to correlate such data with other datasets. In this course; we will learn powerful but simple probability/statistical models that can be applied to fit these data to generate useful predictions. The course will go beyond pattern detections; clustering; or correlation in data to build models of plausible consumer behavior that generates the data. Thus the goal is to build a model of consumer behavior and apply this model to data to test how accurate this model is and tweak it if necessary. Most importantly; with such a model in hand; we want to predict how outcomes will change if the firm changed its strategy. Thus a key goal of the course is to teach students a model based approach to prediction.', '6'])
(['95869', 'Big Data and Large-scale Computing', "['Leman Akoglu']", 'The rate and amount of data being generated in todays world by both humans and machines are unprecedented. Being able to store; manage; and analyze large-scale data has critical impact on business intelligence; scientific discovery; social and environmental challenges. The goal of this course is to equip students with the understanding; knowledge; and practical skills to develop big data / machine learning solutions with the state-of-the-art tools; particularly those in the Spark environment; with a focus on programming models in MLlib; GraphX; and SparkSQL. See the syllabus for more details. Students will also gain hands-on experience with MapReduce and Apache Spark using real-world datasets. This course is designed to give a graduate-level student a thorough grounding in the technologies and best practices used in big data machine learning. The course assumes that the students have the understanding of basic data analysis and machine learning concepts as well as basic knowledge of programming (preferably in Python or Java). Previous experience with Hadoop; Spark or distributed computing is NOT required.', '6'])
(['95874', 'Agile Methods', "['John Davis'; 'William Tan']", 'Businesses must compete in new ways for growth and relevancy; driven by rapidly expanding digital innovation and complexity. As a result; organizations have become reliant upon an ability of their people and leaders to embrace continuous change for strategic gain while delivering continuous; incremental value. This explains the shift industry is making to Agile Methods; replacing outdated ways of organizing and managing software development and delivery. In this course we learn the history of agile methods; we explore Kanban; DevOps and; more deeply; the Scrum Framework; as it is the most popular and sits at the root of most every enterprise framework used to scale agility throughout large organizations. - We teach what it means to be a modern Entrepreneurial Leader through effective Product Ownership. - We teach what it means to lead effective High-Performance Teaming through Self-Leadership; Values and Principles. - We teach what kind of Leadership makes or breaks this in organizations big and small; and offer many case studies; storytelling and deeper insights through in-class teaming exercises. Who this course benefits: Many are in pursuit of playing strategic Product Owner and Scrum Master roles; as well as supporting roles in Product management; development and deliver - if this is you; this is a course you really must consider - speak to your student network about the value it brings in your career goals. Agile Methods is the perfect course for entrepreneurially-minded professionals having career aspirations within any departmental functions (such as Product Management; Product Development; Human Resources; Sales Marketing; Finance; Supply Chain; etc.) and wanting to learn through practical application how organizations deliver continuous value and embrace continuous change.', '6'])
(['95878', 'Engineering Privacy in Software', "['Timothy Libert']", 'Privacy harms that involve personal data can often be traced back to software design failures; which can be prevented through sound engineering practices. In this course; students will learn how to identify privacy threats due to surveillance activities that enhance modern information systems; including location tracking; behavioral profiling; recommender systems; and social networking. Students will learn to analyze systems to identify the core operating principles and technical means that introduce privacy threats; and they will learn to evaluate and mitigate privacy risks to individuals by investigating system design alternatives. Strategies to mitigating privacy risk will be based on emerging standards and reliable privacy preference data. Students will have the opportunity to study web-; mobile- and cyber-physical systems across a range of domains; including advertising; healthcare; law enforcement and social networking. In addition; students will know how; and when; to interface with relevant stakeholders; including legal; marketing and other developers in order to align software design with privacy policy and law.', '12'])
(['95881', 'Web Application Development', "['Michael Bigrigg']", 'With to the ability to capture everything the users do; web applications are at the front lines of data analytics. Web applications should leverage analytics-based insights to adapt to their users. As such; this course is not simply an introduction to HTML/JavaScript programming. Approaches that we will cover includes the instrumentation of a web page to capture user behavior. We will analyze data indicators as an approach to characterize users. This will allow our development to be driven by the ability to personalize the web application experience. At the same time; the course will detail how the web application is used as input to search and advertising engines which use analytics to drive users; and what to do to optimize results. Heinz web courses are a mix of business; technology and analytics; and not simply about programming.', '6'])
(['95882', 'Enterprise Web Development', "['Michael Bigrigg']", 'Enterprise web applications are a complex relationship between the client; server; and any additional back-end services. Web systems are becoming more supportive of users such that the system must adapt based on the needs and behaviors of the users. This course will support the understanding of the data that drives the enterprise web development; which includes the analysis of web traffic and usage; ads; and the personalization of the web experience. This course focuses on the development of an enterprise web application with specific emphasis on the server-side enterprise web application programming and an n-tier system approach. The students will design and develop a full enterprise web application including an n-tier implementation over the lifetime of the course. The development aspect will include server programming languages and systems (such as PHP; Django; Node) and database support (such as mySQL) as well as appropriate front-end development. Heinz web courses are a mix of business; technology and analytics; and not simply about programming.', '6'])
(['95883', 'Ethical Penetration Testing', "['Michael Cook']", 'This course will introduce students to professional penetration testing by teaching offensive tactics along with the appropriate methodologies and responsibilities it takes to ethically attack systems. The majority of time will be spent in hands-on labs performing reconnaissance; discovering vulnerabilities; developing exploits; and carefully penetrating targets.', '6'])
(['95884', 'Network Defenses', "['Toby Meyer'; 'Christopher Herr']", 'Network Defenses will cover the basics of network security through lecture and hands-on interaction with live virtual systems. Topics and labs include network traffic analysis; firewalls; networking; intrusion detection systems; logging and system event management; and network flow. The course will culminate in a group exercise where teams will identify and detect live attacks occurring on a virtual environment. Network Defenses is geared towards students who may be non-technical by nature; but who want to gain hands-on insight into the tools and techniques used in network security and computer security in general. However; no prior hands-on skills are required in order to succeed in this course. Course concepts will be tested via weekly quizzes and a final exam.', '6'])
(['95885', 'Data Science and Big Data', "['Raja Sooriamurthi']", 'From empirical; to theoretical; to computational science; we are at the dawn of a new revolution---a fourth paradigm of science driven by data. Like archaeological remnants; data; by its very nature; is a marker of what happened in the past. How can data be used to better understand this past and what is happening in the present? How can data be leveraged to forecast what will happen in the future? Better still; how can data be used to mold what should happen in the future? In this course we will study descriptive; predictive; and prescriptive methods by which data can be used to gain insight and inform actions of people and organizations. The real excitement of data science is in the doing. This is an application oriented course requiring skill in algorithmic problem solving. We will use Python based data science tools. Comfort in the Pythonic way of thinking is required as demonstrated by a graded of C or better in one or more of the following courses: 95-880 Python for Developers 95-888 Data Focused Python 95-828 Machine Learning for Problem Solving 95-865 Unstructured Data Analytics If youve taken 15-688 Practical Data Science; due to the significant overlap in these classes; we will not be able to register you for 95-885.', '12'])
(['95889', 'Applied Threat Analysis', '["Kyle O\'Meara"]', 'Cyber Threat Analysts fuse several data types to provide industry and government with strategic analysis for decision makers. There is a strong need for students to develop the capability to understand cyber threats and provide actionable intelligence. This course deconstructs what governments and industry define as cyber threats by providing students with a deep understanding of vulnerabilities; exploits; malware; network communications; and actors. In addition to expanding the knowledge base of threats; the course expands the technical understanding of indicators of compromise.', '10'])
(['95891', 'Introduction to Artificial Intelligence', "['David Steier']", 'Driven by the combination of increased access to data; computational power; and improved sensors and algorithms; artificial intelligence (AI) technologies are entering the mainstream of technological innovation. These technologies include search; machine learning; natural language processing; robotics and computer vision. The course begins by describing what the latest generation of artificial intelligence techniques can actually do. After an introduction of some basic concepts and techniques; the course illustrates both the potential and current limitations of these techniques with examples from a variety of applications. We spend some time on understanding the strengths and weaknesses of human decision-making and learning; specifically in combination with AI systems. Exercises will include hands-on application of basic AI techniques as well as selection of appropriate technologies for a given problem and anticipation of design implications. In a final project; groups of students will participate in the creation of an AI-based application.', '12'])
(['95898', 'Introduction to Python', "['Constantine Cois']", 'Python is a powerful; versatile cross-platform programming language that has a strong presence in diverse software engineering disciplines including web development; information security; network scripting; data science; and embedded systems. While Python itself may be a deceptively simple language; the vast array of frameworks and tools available for use across a variety of specialized fields make it a formidable tool in the arsenal of any technologist with areas of focus from Machine Learning to Cybersecurity. This course will provide a pragmatic and hands-on introduction to the Python programming language; with a focus on practical applications and projects; rather than theoretical topics. Students will design and build software to solve problems from various disciplines each week using Python. As the course progresses; students will learn to work with packages; data structures; object-oriented programming; and tools for data science and cybersecurity.', '6'])
